[Auto-generated transcript. Edits may have been applied for clarity.]
Okay. Yeah. But you do have the side effects.

I think that's really. The issue.

Okay. I guess so. Okay. I should go.

I should go see the Crusaders.

And I think it's because it was so I was.

So excited for you to see God.

Just like I was sorry that he was like.

You know what you. Need to do after.

Okay. So. This is sort of help me and stuff like that.

So I don't think I'll see. You.

Later either. Okay. Are you good at those things?

Yeah, we got it. So it's like, what's up with all of this?

Okay. So this is this.

Is my slideshow. So it's. Like.

Yeah. Would you like to know what happened here? Yeah.

Okay. Um.

What kind of thoughts? Okay, let's. Go to the house, please.

You guys. I think this.

Is, uh. Okay. That'll work.

Thanks. Okay. The frozen fruit.

So I worked in Chicago. Well, I don't know. Uh, I don't know if they.

I don't know if they said a new record, but we set two records. 26 below, a 28 below the next weekend.

And it was windy. The wind chill was, like, 75 below. So.

Wow. My friend's mother in law's from Georgia.

She walked out in November of 28 below and she said, oh, it's a little different.

That's kind of weird. I'm not a hot weather person anyway.

Okay. Uh, I wish I could take these at home.

So. We're going to go through a lot of stuff.

Inch by inch. And I've done it so many times now I worry.

Can't do it. And I forget how when you first learn this stuff, you know, there's a lot going on.

But that's kind of the process of learning things, right? If you if you, uh, don't know the territory.

You look down and you see, like, a million things. Right?

But once you kind of get used to it, you see what's happening.

All right. Here's another thing for your old age right now, before you go to bed, I take eight medications.

Eight pills. When I first started doing this.

Wow, that's a lot. And now if I put them out and I just look down, I can see.

And I instantly know there's eight there. You have that problem.

You ever do that? It's just like, uh, other things that seem to be a lot when you're used to it.

It's like, oh no, that's not, that's not so much. Okay.

So I have that on this.

Like I forget what it's like to go through the first time and, uh, I get nervous that I'm not going fast enough, but that's never been the case.

Okay. So there's one other thing I want to say by way of general background.

Now, what is the step by step? I mean, I don't know, I.

I remember taking like, stochastic processes was a PhD student and I wonder, like, what's all the big deal about?

You know, I knew all this stuff and now now they're just doing things.

And this is what I didn't realize until like yesterday, you know, we're going to use math,

but the way we're going to use it is actually where the economist approaches what is what it is,

is it keeps track of how we're going to use it to keep track of how things change.

I never thought of it that way. I think a lot of mathematicians think of it is really like if you if you apply a function to some number,

you change that function and you change that number into something else.

Yeah, yeah. I don't know where my head of where Am dad was, but what we're going to do is really focus on that.

So a lot of the the way I like the way I like to use Excel,

and this is maybe why I tend to do myself a little bit on this, is because it's very good for seeing how things change.

Kind of inch by inch. Okay. So we're going to want to do that.

All right. So uh, again just just one of the ways you can think about what we're doing in the first few sessions is,

um, we're really developing a line, a language of value.

So when we say, oh, this is more valuable than that, what are we talking about?

Now, that's very important because you need to understand that conceptually.

What are you thinking about? But I want to tell you, by the time you get to the real world, it becomes squishy and world defining.

Okay. So if anybody had a finance class or, uh, in finance at all, no.

Econ with. No, we can't finance. Okay. So what finance people have been trying to do for a long time is they want to draw a graph.

And now that graph is kind of the expected return of an asset.

On the other side is the risk. And the intuition is, you know, the riskier things.

We talked about this last a couple classes ago, you know, to get a higher expected return you have to take more risk.

You try to do that. Ever since I could remember. And the deal is how do you define risk in the real world?

You know, that's tough. Anyway, we'll get to that. Don't worry.

But first we want to start with something where the idea of value is really clear.

So that's what we've done so far, right? We've worked on this.

Well first of all I'm only going to talk about financial value.

So that means I just need to look at the cash flows the stream of cash flows.

And uh, I have two streams of cash flows that have different cash coming in at different times in different amounts.

How do I compare them? Sometimes one will eventually pay me more, but it pays me later, right?

So it's kind of a trade off between sometimes between the amount you get and when you get it.

That's the that's what we started off with with the 83, 96 and the 100 is to try to present that basic trade off, you know, a simple one.

You can have everybody now or you can have it later.

But if you take it now, it's going to be less okay.

How do I compare those two things. They're different. So we started off by saying but trying to really appreciate yeah they're different right.

So that was the that was the thought experiment of oh you're. You know, you have to consume it right now.

Okay. So I try to get you to think more in terms of what you're going to get from the what is the company itself?

Okay. So then you can easily think about these are different things, right.

And then what do we do. We added a market setting which would seem to.

It gives our decision maker more alternatives which you would think generally if you're already overwhelmed with complexity,

more alternatives doesn't necessarily help you.

It depends. You know, if you're in the economics world and decision making is free, then the more alternatives you have, the better off you are.

That ain't true in the real world either, right?

But again, a lot of these things that we think these there's sort of theories or models that are useful for thinking about things,

even if they end up not being exactly true. That makes sense, because if you don't use the simpler way to think about it.

Okay, smart guy, how do you want to think about it? You know, all its glorious complexity.

Uh, well, that doesn't work so well.

So what we do is we sort of simplify things, work it out, and then we ask, uh, you know, how, well, you know, how does that what do I want to do?

Right. That's some some judgment step because no models ever perfect.

There's gonna be some judgment step at the last for what you're going to do.

So I had an interesting colleague with, uh, a conversation with a colleague on.

A couple days ago, and she's in Houston, and she's, um.

You know, very, very, very hesitant about I. And, uh, I, of course, am an AI head.

And, uh, she said, but but what if you have really been?

I said, I have a really big financial decision covering up a really big financial decision, because I'm old enough to retire.

And, you know, when you retire, there's a couple of different ways you can save for retirement.

One way is you earn money.

You pay taxes when you earn it. You invest that money in it and and it grows.

And then you pull out the earnings. Right. That's one way to do it.

Another way to do it is again this a special U.S. thing.

You can do positive rules on the but you can deposit money before you pay the taxes on it.

And then in that gross. Now if you haven't paid taxes you're you're putting in more money to grow.

But when you pull it out, you have to pay taxes. And you have to pay taxes as if you just heard that.

So there's a lot of details, right? Different tax rates. There are times all this stuff.

Right. So there's this opportunity that I would have to convert some of my retirement from.

I put it in with pay taxes on it and it grew.

I could convert it by paying all the taxes that are due.

And then it'll get treated the other way. So the question is, do I want to do that?

Well, you know, I started working and well, what I tell you when my retirement when started growing 1985 when I came here.

So we're talking about some money here. So my I started talking to a colleague from Houston.

She says, yeah, but would you ever trust in a guy to do that?

No. Makes mistakes, you know. And I said the wrong way to think about it.

Would I ever do this without asking if I wanted it fixed?

Absolutely. Never. I would never do this.

I mean, even if even if my tax accountant gave me some analysis, I would absolutely go to my computer, say, oh, here's something to do.

And what do you say?

Now, I know that answer might be right or might be wrong, but I can't really I cannot conceive of making that decision without consulting I.

All right. So, anyway, um. When I start talking about, I don't know, because I always do.

I always do. But, um.

So what we want to do is we want to develop. I guess it was along the lines of how we think versus what we actually finally do.

You know that that no model tells you exactly what to do, but that that's the wrong benchmark to have.

The question is, does it improve your decision making? Okay. So these these present value type models I know people have worked,

but just to talk about how your people work for a long time to try to articulate how do they how do they go and so forth.

All right. So let's. So so everything as we talked about last time is driven by one idea.

That idea is compound interest. So as, uh, chancellor said, look,

the Mesopotamian Mesopotamians figured out how to how to charge interest before they figured out how to put wheels on carts.

Okay. It's just very early idea.

And so today, what I want to do is a couple things. I'm going to spend some more time on comparative discounting.

But a big thing. And the big reason I want to do it this way is I want to show you how you can use any spreadsheet.

I've used Excel for the most part, but, um, you know, you can use Google Sheets if you want or whatever.

Um, but how useful these spreadsheets are not only for doing the calculation, but to help you learn what's going on step by step.

That's what's really. That's what they're really good for. Yeah. Uh, real quick question about Apple.

Like using a mac. Yeah. Microsoft because I only have a mac.

But I know when you go into the like it works. This other people usually get like Microsoft.

So I was wondering how they differ in the Excel. Okay. So great question backwards okay.

So so what just went on with the my IT guy is I'm changing the also delivery.

If you go into canvas right now and go to the class page it should have it should have

illuminated at 830 and click on like the spreadsheet does a spreadsheet like this,

the spreadsheet come up for you. I think number one.

There are but there's there's class notes and there's spreadsheets and those are links.

Let me let you wish you were here.

Let me see. Oh, yeah. Okay, go. Go to the Moj.

Go to modules and and go to like today's yesterday's class.

So there's a page called like class on it. So pretty okay with that.

This by the way, is something we should do. Oh I'm like everybody's got their computer.

So are you. While you have the class page, did you click the spreadsheet?

Yeah. So you been back up, right? Okay.

So this used to drive me nuts about the version of Excel or whatever.

If you use office 365 on the web, no matter where it's from, no matter what you have, it'll work both way around it, right?

So what you're supposedly looking at, and we'll see.

So you you have the spreadsheet open, right? It's good for you.

Good for you. So what I'm going to be doing is I'm going to be working on that spreadsheet.

Now that's actually linked. What you're actually looking at is on my OneDrive, it's it's a shared file.

So when we work through the class, it should be able to watch the way it goes.

And you'll have the spreadsheet. You know, you'll see what happened in class, right.

Or where we got to because when the accounting problems come along,

it's going to take us longer than one class to solve the problems that are going to build up.

Right. So it'll be helpful. We'll just leave it there or if something happens.

I mean, this could never happen. I could never make a mistake in writing a problem.

Right? And then I'll have to change the one master file on my computer.

I don't have to change it all over the place. Right. But I need you.

I need your help to make sure that this delivery system is working.

Because always before I would load everything into canvas and have it manage everything I'm trying to change.

Okay. So, uh. You know.

So. Well, here's here's a here's another thing I did.

I took the, uh, transcript from a couple the the first two classes we did, you know,

and, uh, I had Claude tell me about, like, teaching was very interesting.

Claude says, oh, you have a conversational. It's an informal and conversational style.

Oh, I'm okay, I guess that. And then what you do is you you have this vibe of what?

We're working this out together, like a lot of. That's why I never.

I never realized I was not, uh, that's actually what I do.

Okay. So, um. So, you know, there's sort of no limit to my use of software at this point.

Okay. Even in terms of just like on Monday, uh, what should the lecture be about?

Okay. Oh. So along the way, we remind ourselves of some things and introduce a few more.

That's why I started talking about that. So quite identified that what I do is I sort of we sort of go along and we figure stuff out,

but then sometimes we run into something that we weren't really planning on,

and we have to figure it out because that's why we do things like this, right?

Inch by inch. Okay, so here's the big thing with Excel.

It's got a zillion things in it. Excel, right.

Uh, all kinds of built in formulas or whatever. I never use of it.

I for present value calculations. I never use the built in formulas.

Why? Well, because mostly what I want to do is I, like I said, I want to see how things evolve over time.

I want to see how things change from one time to the next.

So I don't want to just plug in a formula and say, oh, that parameter in the formula change, you'll see I want to see it.

Or this is just like, I don't know, an ability to do abstract thinking at a certain level, I guess.

Okay. So all I do, all I use for this kind of problem is autofill copy and paste, absolute and relative references formula notation, auto.

Um, I'm really kind of hacked off that they move the Autosum button from some place on the ribbon to another place.

And you know, they didn't ask me and names, so I named things or stuff.

That's it. That's it. Okay.

And a big thing if you're not used to Excel, that really helps you track changes.

Are these relative references. So I can put in a formula.

It's like think of a relative reference like a chess move.

Right. Depending on where you know where the knight is on the board.

These are the moves. It'll go one up, two up and one over or one over and two up.

Right. All relative to where it is on the board. That's what relative references are okay.

It's just making everything relative to. Oh I see look, we got all kinds of people in the spreadsheet here.

I don't know how that's going to work. We'll see. All right with this.

Okay. So what to do? Everything we talked about last class and a lot more.

Uh, and you just saw that, you see kind of how how speedily you can do these things.

Now let me see if I can, uh, unhide this and hide this change.

All right. Oh, need more working space?

You know what is about all the computers are now become too helpful.

And just leave me alone. Okay. Oh, we're dividing by zero here.

Don't. Don't worry about that too much. Now here's one way I could definitely help.

Anybody know how I do full screen on this?

Full screen. Let's try this. Yeah. Not so bad.

All right. When I teach this class at a law school.

It's like, you know, they mostly sit around and talk to each other. So, like, I have one little screen and this behind me in some way.

You'll see me. I'll come in at the end of the semester. My neck will be frozen because of the there anyway.

Okay, so, uh, we did a lot of stuff with an interest rate of 6% right now.

One thing I want to point out to you is I've got, um, I want so before love.

Here you go. And look at that little box right there. It says interest rate.

That's the name box you want to name it. So you just type the name in there.

Okay. And that way I don't have to refer to that particular cell.

If I'm going to use something, I'm just going to say interest rate.

Now that in turn helps me keep track of like what's actually going on because the interest rate that's this and this is that right?

But I didn't use I did not use, uh, names for a long time.

Okay. So one things we did was we said, okay, uh, we have 83, 96 today.

Huh. Maybe if if everybody that's in the worksheet would, like go over it and put your cursor in column L.

How about that. And then what I'm doing will be more obvious.

Come on, SL. Where are you going? To move over.

PJ. PJ move over. PJ this.

PJ. Oh, is that me?

No. Anyway. Oh, okay. PJ.

Got it. Okay. All right.

Because otherwise I'll just be distracted. Okay. So here I am.

And, uh, you can see the cell I'm in. Now, what about this 83, 96 to.

How much does it grow after one period? Well, we started with 83, 96.

And this is a multiplicative process, right.

Oh my God. Is this?

Is this AI working in the background telling me what to do? You don't want to use that, right?

This is a great example. I could click. I shoot this Christ.

This is this is going to be on YouTube.

Don't look at it. It's okay.

What? You know what's happening. This is the this is the allure video.

You can click through this. I can just click click click click click click and it can work the damn problem.

Right. So if all you're interested in is getting done and checking it off your list,

and if you're not interested in learning anything, then it's for you, right?

However, you really have to understand. You didn't learn anything from doing this.

You know you're not mastering the subject. If I just use Excel.

So some way, what I would like, what I would like to do, and I advise you to do,

is I want to figure out a way to turn that off while I'm working on the problem.

Right. Wow. So it actually it could read the words, know what I'm trying to do?

Okay, I get away. It's a Wonderful World, but I'm not going to.

I'm not going to do it. I want to say one.

Okay, so at the end of the period, I'm going to have one plus that I'm going to have the interest that I earned.

So the interest rate. Interest rate.

Interest rate. So interest now.

Oh, no. Oh I see. Interest rate.

Okay. That's what I'm going to have right at the end of the period.

I would have my original money and then I'm going to have the interest.

I are very cool with that. Okay.

So that we already figured out. Shot up.

How could I make this thing shut up? Too helpful.

Okay, so we figured out last time that was 89 bucks, right?

Now the same process. Is it work to moving, moving from 1 to 2.

Right. That is whatever I started with. Let's look at the formula it takes.

Whatever I started with multiply it times one plus the interest rate.

Okay, well, get out of here.

If I just take that little handle and drag it forward, it does the calculation for me.

Right. It it it popped. By that I mean, actually it populated.

The right formula. So now I can just automatically seeded that 8396.

Uh, goes to 89, goes to 9434, grows to 100 bucks.

Oops. Cool. It's gross to.

I don't even know what else. I don't know why. There's another arrow that my arrows got messed up.

Yeah. Get out of here. I'm the author, so it could delete that.

Why doesn't it let me delete that. Delete that.

Oh, well. Okay. That's how easy it is.

And what's cool is it doesn't matter if it's 100 periods.

If it's a thousand periods. I just. Cool.

I'm a little I'm a little taken aback that it was working like a homework problem before.

Massive changes are coming to education.

I think from this ability that this thing works.

The problem already. And most people don't know it.

So anyway, it's going to be fun. Okay, now look at I also I had preprogramed this formula and to just talk about the interest earned.

So let's see what that is. That's uh. That's the principle.

That's the amount 8396. That's the balance in our account times the interest rate.

Oops. What's that interest rate I don't know I don't want to answer them.

But so the first period we earn $5 and $1.0376.

Right. So 3.7 $0.06 of interest right. Over there.

So that's the five. 5.03 let me put my cursor in.

5.037. Okay.

That's the interest part that just the interest rate times 8396.

Now look in the second period. So I made a table where the net the time goes down.

In the second period we earned $5.34 of interest.

Right. Not $5.04. Why do we earn more interest in the second period?

Can you give me a calculation? Yeah. That's compounding.

Well, what does that mean? That means that the second value, the 89.0 after the first increase.

Um, how many dollars? That's like five.

503. Right. Yeah. That will the time on plus the interest rate.

Yeah. So because that x value is bigger, that will mean to a bigger uh.

Yeah. Okay. So let's see with this 5.0376.

Let's call it $5.04. The interest we earned in the first period, that 6% of that 8396.

Right. But what is the next number of $5.34?

Well, we still have the 8396 going ahead.

So we can think of that as uh, 5.0376 plus.

Now I want to do a calculation of interest on the interest.

Okay. So what I want to do is I want to take 6% of the 5.03.

So somebody tell me what that is. Having a calculator is not a terrible thing either, to just sort of crank through some easy things like that.

But I could also just do it right here. So let's see.

I'm saying what I'm saying is the 583 should be equal to this number.

Plus interest rate. So this number uh oh times oh plus excuse me interest on the interest rate.

So how do I say that? Plus the interest rate.

Interest rate. Times.

The interest that I've earned. Okay, so, look, I got back the same number, right?

Let's just look at what was interest on the interest here. Doo doo doo doo doo doo doo.

Interest on the interest is. Oh, it's just this, right? .0322 and I always leave.

These little markers only work at 5.032 to.

0.3. Oh to.

Uh 023. So I get 99335.

Hey, that's the interest in the second period, right?

So it's interest on my original balance plus interest on the interest that's compounding.

Now that keeps going right. That interest on the interest part just keeps going.

So it's getting the interest on interest is getting bigger and bigger and bigger as time goes on.

Right. The interest on the original 8396 is always going to be $5 and three, $5.04,

but the interest on the interest, that factor is going to get bigger and bigger and bigger.

Why? Because in the next period I'm not going to have interest on five or whatever.

I'm going to have interest on the sum of the previous interests.

That's how copyediting works. Okay.

Now I. So we got to meet again Friday.

I don't know if I'm going to be through with this by Friday or not, but, uh,

Claude and I have been preparing some tutorial type exercises just to walk you through this same sort of thing.

And Clyde made some great suggestions there. You'll see on this slide puts in some like rabbit holes or asides and stuff like that.

So anyway, we'll see how that goes. Okay. Does that make sense.

The interest on the interest. Good.

All right. Well, how about the present value? Well, we just work it in reverse.

That. I'm going to now I'm going to copy from right to left.

Uh. So 100 divided by one, plus the interest rate.

Okay. And so we already knew the answer.

That was 9434. And just going forwards and backwards to do two.

Oh you know, where's my cursor. Anybody anybody got a cursor.

Oh, here we go. Oh, so now all I have to do.

See, I used to say before ChatGPT, how smart is like Bill gates, right?

Because, um. Oops. Because you sort of knew what I wanted to do just from.

Um. But me grabbing the handle and holding the server know how to do it.

So I clicked the handle here. Held down the mouse button and drag it.

Okay. Well.

Okay, now, this one's a little, uh.

Ho! Hmm. The question is like, how do I want to set up this calculation?

So now we're getting different amounts and different at different times.

So one way we can think of this, the way, the way present values work is we can just think of it as the sum of three things.

One that pays us 151 period from now. Another one pays this $40 two periods from now, and another one pays this $1.42 and at time three.

So makes sense. We can just say this, this, this, um, cash flow stream is just the additive parts of the different pieces of it.

Right. So now I'm going to show you some, some, uh, tricks here.

So this guy, what is it equal to 50 divided by the present value, 50 divided by, um, one plus the interest rate.

Okay. And.

Then how much is that worth at this time?

Well, it's that that's what I want to say is this is.

Get out of here. This is my. This is my calculation.

So I just want to say that I want to I'm going to build a general formula.

This is going to put this the sum. Of that stuff.

So in other words, it's, um. No, that's not right.

Is that right? No, I don't want to do that. There it. Okay.

So how about the the period, the, uh.

The 40. Here's a trick.

Right. So that's 40. The present value of it is for the amount.

Divided by what? One plus the interest rate.

Yeah. Well squared.

Right. But look at the way I've counted time.

The. The amount to discount is just the number of periods away that we are.

Cool with that. And.

If I'm cool enough, I could take this formula and say when I drag it, I'm probably almost surely going to make a mistake on this.

Uh C16. So I want to move that.

I want to keep drawing this from the right from the column.

The interest rate is what it is. And the same thing is on row that from the same row.

So is it the case that. Now we'll see if this works.

If it works, then when I.

Well. If I copy. No copy.

It was weird. Paste in here. Oh, it did it.

Okay. Let's make sure what it did.

It took $1.42 discounted by the interest rate three times.

And. I could be tricky.

Now we're going to want to.

We're going to be doing a lot of this kind of thing, because let's think about what happens when we start talking about businesses.

They have a budget. They might have a cash payoff every year.

Right. And when we're projecting them, we're we want to know, well, how much is it worth now?

How much will it be worth next year? How much will it be worth in a year from now?

You can play tricks with these exponents and just make out tiny calculations really quickly.

Yeah. Okay. So now this is this is what it, um, the other part I wanted to show you the tricky part.

Oh, look, for some reason, the online version, the Autosum, is right there, 83, 96.

Okay.

See, I don't mind using those kinds of built in formulas, because that just saved me the trouble of at it because I knew I wanted to add them up.

All right. That captures how I use the technology, period.

Right? I know what I want to go down to a fight in F level, that I'm controlling it step by step, but I don't want to go further than that.

I don't want to sit there and I, you know, I could we could have been doing this with paper, pencil and stuff up.

That's crazy. Right. So you said that you can you you try to use.

The good news is you're when you're sitting there in your computer, you're in control of that, right?

I mean, so by now I don't have to do so much of that.

Right. But when I when I was first learning these calculations, you know, I wanted to see it every little bit.

Oh, now I had that code. Okay.

So I encourage you to use this as a learning device.

Now the future value. Okay, so we made the point, didn't we, that here's a stream of cash flows.

It has the same. It has the present value of 8396.

And what that meant is that we should be able to go borrow at 6% on the stream of cash flows, promising these payments 50, $42, 42.

And they should people should be. Well we can the amount we could borrow is 8396.

Okay. So we're making the point that present value,

any two streams with the same present value can be converted into any other stream with that present value.

By borrowing and lending. So I'm trying to really like. Oh, is that really true?

Oh, yeah. Okay, so how about if we want to to to take it forward?

Well, look, now I'm not discounting. I'm going forward at time three.

By the time I get to time three, that dollar 42 is just worth $1.42.

But let's think about what is this 50 worth?

Well, um. Yeah, it's that 50.

Times. It'll it'll grow.

Want one one period. Right. 1.06 I'm going to stop.

Type it in the interest rate. All right. And then to the next period.

Then it grows. By what? Then the amount we had grows by 1.06 again.

So that the future value of that first 50. Now we got to be careful about time 50 at the end of period one.

Uh, to talk about the time three I have to move forward two periods.

I always have to do this and I and I and I all and I frequently make mistakes and right I going to say, okay, here's a timeline and time 0123.

So I got 50 coming in here. And I want to know what is it worth at time three I'm going one two periods ahead.

Accounting is really really really good for you to get time straight.

Right. So this timeline trick again and again and again over and over and over.

Like what happens with when makes a lot of difference.

If I sell something to somebody. When did I sell?

Yesterday. Today. And I think I'm going to sell tomorrow.

That makes a difference when you do accounting. Right. If I sold it to him last year, then I'm not going to count it in my my.

My work this year. For this year. That was last year.

If I sold it to them this year, I'm going to count when it counted in this year, not next year.

Right. So a lot of what we're going to do in the accounting has to do with time and how we divide it up,

because we want to we want to understand what's going on period by period.

Right. Period by period. What happened in this period?

Oh, what happened in between period one and period two?

Well, here's what here's what happened here going forward.

They had 50 at the start of the period. They earned some interest on that.

So by the end of the period it was worth it was worth 53.

That's one of the things that happened here. $3 worth of interest.

Right. And then.

And then I could say over the whole. Over the whole two periods.

There were $6.18 of interest that was earned.

Right. My original 15 plus because I go to 50 but 5618.

But I'm going to say $3 of interest was earned in this period, and $3.18 was earned in this period given since.

Now again, think about a business context a startup business.

You know you really want an uncle. How are things unfolding here?

Right? Did they start off and get really lucky early on and things just got worse?

Or are they building it? I mean, usually what you would expect to see is kind of building, right?

That as time goes on, their they're sort of increasing value more and more.

Does that make sense? Okay.

Then I gotta say, well, the last thing I have to do is say, what is this, 4040?

And that's good. Uh, going forward, one period.

That grows to, um, 40 to 40.

So what do you think it's going to grow to? 100 bucks.

Okay, so you can see, you know,

I got I'm really trying to get you to see how different cash flow patterns and how this what this notion of present value really is.

Oh, it can transform it from one to the other.

So in other words, if I, if I had if I had this cash flow pattern of 80, $40.42, I should have been able to borrow at time zero 8396 on that.

Did I invest that 8396 and then it's going to grow that it's going to grow to 100.

The way to think about it. Okay, here's a here's a cool one.

This is an annuity quote. And the annuity is a series of level payments.

That's what an annuity is. So a car payment or rent or anything like that is just uh a series of level payments.

Right. So I'm going to take this payment 31 that one way, and I'm going to discount it twice.

Um, just discount it once. 1.06 raised to the one power.

Okay. And well, let's just so I'm just going one of my.

Oh, I'm taking the future value of the annuity anyway.

Uh, so if I get. I'm sorry.

So, so if I get this 83, delete that 96.

Didn't I just do a problem just sort of like this, right?

Right. Right here. Copy that.

Paste that paste, I said. Oh, whoa whoa whoa.

You know what? This this keyboard is really screwed up. Okay.

Gonna copy this. Model capital.

Copy that. And.

Paste it. What did it do?

31. Okay. Look. That. It, uh.

Did it see 32? Oh, yeah.

It moved it forward. Okay.

So the future value that annuities 100 bucks. And the present value, of course, is going to be 8396.

Over and over and over and over. Now we're also going to want to do things like this.

You know, let's suppose you rented out your apartment or your, uh, you rented out your house to somebody.

And you did it for three periods. But you want to track and say, well, where will I stand?

After one period has gone by. So you see these cash flow streams?

I'm trying to get used to sort of walking through these one at a time.

I start off now is here at time zero one period from now.

Now will be where the one is now. Change all the way through.

All the way through, by the way through. Okay, I think I do that really.

Uh, there's some terminology also that will encounter.

So remember a coupon bond has a if it makes its promise by having a face value and a coupon rate.

And what that and a maturity date. So the so so what that promises is say on the maturity date I'm going to give you the face value in cash.

That's the amount of cash you're going to get. And it and from the time you own the bond till maturity.

I'm going to pay you the coupon three times the face, and that requires natural intervals.

All of that language is just to make it easy for me to make a certain kind of promise to you, right?

It's just a name for I'm going to make this kind of promise.

So my wife was, uh, asked the other day. She said, I don't see how they do this.

She's very much, for some reason for that.

So it's Netflix is trying to. Netflix and, uh, Paramount are trying to take over MGM.

Isn't that what's happening out in the world now?

And I know business. Uh, Warner Brothers, Warner brothers. Right.

So my wife really wants Netflix to win. I don't know why, but she does.

Okay, so then she was she came to me there and she said, wow.

I said, well, what's the what's their bid? She said Netflix has been denied $3 billion in cash for.

Warner Brothers, $93 billion.

Okay, she said, where are they going to get? You know as well as, you know, figure it out.

So I asked ChatGPT, how much cash does Netflix have?

I'm hoping it's if it's a public company, you know. But how much cash did Netflix show on its most recent balance sheet?

And then I got a little. This is where you kind of have to know what you're doing.

But cash isn't enough because maybe they also hold a bunch of marketable securities, a bunch of really liquid investments that they can sell.

They're basically just ways to earn more interest instead of just keeping your money in a low interest bearing account.

Right. So I actually asked, what's the cash? Plus the marketable thing goes out.

That's about 9 billion. Okay, so they're a little short.

You know, they're all short. Um. Um, 82 billion, 84 billion.

So what are they going to do? I said, well, they're going to go to the capital markets and raise it.

So they're basically going to borrow it one way or the other.

That's a lot of money to be borrowing. Now, one of the reasons they're investment bankers is going to are going to make a lot of money off of this,

is because they want to figure out what kind of promises are we going to make to borrow this.

Do we want to issue coupon bonds? What's the coupon rate?

What's the face? How does that going to work? What's the maturity date that we want to lock into?

Because now from their point of view, when they borrow something, they're locking into a stream of cash that they've got to pay.

Right. Another thing they could do is they could issue new stock somehow.

We could issue more shares bringing some money from shareholders.

Raise the 90 billion that way. We're this what I'm.

What we're doing right here is what the people trying to figure out what they're going to do.

Are doing like 24 over seven, 365 zillions of them.

Okay. In fact, they probably got a lot of that figured out already before they even said, we'll give you 93 billion.

Right. So just to give you the sense of we're just hammered on this, but this is where it goes, okay.

This is this is where it goes. Okay.

So what would a zero coupon bond be? What zero coupon bond.

The coupon rate is zero. So you only get back to face value.

So let's see if if we if they issue something like a zero coupon bond and if they if, if they have to pay 6%,

you know, and they, they, they promised to pay a $119 billion three periods from now.

Let's see how much they could borrow. Okay. Well, whatever they borrow, the present value of it, it's just got to be the present value of that cash.

All right. If they're gonna pay 119.1 billion to the people who own these securities, then I can tell you at 6% what the,

um, how much they're going to be able to borrow, going to be able to borrow 100 billion.

I don't know why this happens. Whatever I cut and drag just doesn't seem to want it.

Well, let me to. Oh it did let me delete this. Oh that's oh it messes up my arrows when I drag.

That's not good. Okay. Does that make sense? Well, you could say.

So. So they could if they needed 90 billion.

If they made this promise, they're going to be able to raise 100.

Right? Well, what if they. That means they don't have to promise to pay that much.

This is what? Here. What if they promise to pay, uh, 103 billion instead of 119 000?

With a click of a switch, I press a button. I just said, well, they're going to be able to borrow only 86 billion.

What they say they need. Well, that's kind of more in the territory they've got now.

Well, you know what? I know they don't really want to spend all their cash down to zero.

So maybe we just ought to think about borrowing the whole amount. So how about they promise to pay back 110?

Okay. Now that's that's borrowing about that. That's going to let them borrow about 92 billion.

So I just wanted to add that in fact easy.

Once I have the model produced we can say okay, but nobody really knows the interest rate.

So what if the market charges them 8% instead of, uh.

Six. I'm going to have this.

Well, bad news guys. You're only going to be able to borrow 87 billion if I can.

Damn arrows. The way I got to take the arrows out of my chest.

Okay. So they'd only be able to borrow 87 billion.

How do they know what the interest rates are going to be? They don't.

They don't know what the interest rates are going to be. They have to try selling these different promises and see what the market charges.

That's a market rate, right? You can't just go look up in a book somewhere.

How much could or you know, we couldn't ask.

I couldn't ask Clyde. Well, how much will the interest rate be on these?

He doesn't know until you sell them.

And you get supply and demand at works and all that. Yeah.

Uh, with the interest rate be higher for a zero coupon because you're not getting paid the incremental amounts.

So because of inflation, you would buy those bonds usually sell for.

Yeah. Oh, well, I mean, so the question is, is the interest rate tied to the way this promises are being made?

And, uh, I would say in the real world, yeah, you know, we will see.

I don't know if I go through this or not, but in actuality, there's a thing called the term structure of interest rates.

And what that means is if you borrow money for one year, the rate you pay on that is typically tip,

not always lower than if you borrowed it for two years.

Okay. So the. So if I'm borrowing money for one year the rate might be 6%.

But if I borrow it for two years right. Might be 6.5. That's just a fact.

Now, that doesn't fit our theory right. We don't know.

In fact, there are some Yale finance professors that have the best.

They were, anyway, the best theory of interest rates in the Trump structure of interest rates.

Let's go to the Cox Ingersoll Ross model, which talks about what the interest in.

But at some point we just have models. We don't really know what's going to happen.

We have some. So if we get a result, we'll probably have some intuition, right.

So like if you if you saw two things like, like let's, let's suppose that, um, uh, Verizon floats one bond for two years and another one at three.

And then everything else is kind of the same, held the same. And they find out that the market charges more on one than the other.

Okay. That's. Then we can start trying to think about what why the market do that.

Right. If it charges a higher rate on the longer term, we'd say, well, you know, there's more risk because something could happen.

You know, we just make stuff up, right? But the fact is, we don't know.

Yes. Who pays the investment banker for making that market for them?

And is that does that money come off? The money that. Yeah, a lot of it.

Yeah, yeah. So typically the investment bank fees now see a person with experiences or right away saying you're going to get charge right.

Because then you have to take it off the top. Yes you do. You do.

So so again another simplification that we're making here is there's no transactions cost with the borrower and the money.

That's not true in general right. So we also have to be able to understand what transact what fees we're going to have to pay.

So the investment banker fees are going to they're going to charge some fee probably as a function.

And that's going to be negotiable. But it's probably it's a function of how much is raised.

Right. So net. So they need to Netflix will go to Goldman Sachs and say raise me $90 billion.

Goldman Sachs will say fine we'll take 9 billion. Where is that 9 billion that 10% that they're charging?

Coming off of that. Oh, they're not going to they're not going to charge zero 9 billion for whatever.

They're going to 4 billion. Well you know go and doesn't. Well they probably I don't even think they'll probably take that much.

This is the game with really high powered finance. Just what I just did here.

Right. I just took 119 and said, oh no, no, no.

That's 119 billion, right? That's what I did, right?

I could have said 119,000. I could have said anything. The underlying work was the same.

The total amount of it making a mistake. It could be a slight difference, right, because of the scale.

But what if somebody like Goldman or investment bankers do is they take a very small percentage of a huge number?

So, so they will talk about when they, uh, if you're in the money management business,

you talked about this, you know, talk about interest rates for your fees.

You talk about basis points. And all of basis point is, is 1/100 of a percent.

Okay. One bit equals 0.0 1%.

So you gotta multiply that out. You know, that's a small number, but you take a small number of times too much.

Space. So that so government doesn't care how they do it.

But if you're. But if you're, um, the borrower, you have to realize, yeah, there's cost associated with this.

Right. And so and when we do the accounting we're not going to get I'm not going to get too heavily into this.

But when we do the accounting we're going to kind of have to figure out, I mean, maybe,

maybe what the investment bank does is they take their fees out before the proceeds come over.

I you that's what they do. Right. So so they they issue the debt that they write heard over the debt issuance.

But before they transfer that money over to, um, uh, the buyer, they'll take their fee right there.

I bet a lot that's what they do, right?

And so in accounting for that, we'll have a little issue.

Again, this is not something we're going to go into detail, but we'll have a little issue with say how much did they borrow.

But some of what they borrowed was just to cover the fees, right?

Not. This is this is the kind of accounting detail that, you know, really, uh, you have to hash out sort of inch by inch.

I don't know if that, if that helped, but but. Yeah. You know, again.

So we're abstracting away from the costs right now just to get an idea of how the valuation works going through time.

But there's a bunch of details that could be added, a lot of details.

And we're not going to go through video. Mostly we're just interested in the conceptual idea of seeing how value grows and and stuff like that.

And, and, and to be able to come up with a word called value that makes a sense in a precise way.

Okay. Let's see. And, uh, that's it, that's it, that's it.

Okay. Then there's some stuff about coupon payments.

You know, uh, the all the logic is all the same, but the first step I have to do is I have to figure out what promise is being made.

So if it's 4% per period, I'm going to get two different kinds of payments.

Right. I'm going to get the face value.

Face value. Now.

Uh. Got it. Okay. So what I just did was I used the keyboard shortcut to say when you put dollar signs in front of the row or the column,

that that that takes away the relative references, just as.

No always go to be 70. And so the face value times to you, uh, the coupon rate.

Uh, yeah, the coupon rate. So what this bond is promising to pay is $4 per period.

Right. So it's promising that stream of payments for coupons.

Four times the face value and you get the face value back.

At the end. Okay, so. So what do you, um.

So? So what? Stream in my value? Well, I'm just value in this stream, right?

I'm just I'm just valuing for for for for 104.

I think that's that's the. The language up here just lets me figure out what the cash flows are.

Now I'm done with that language. I'm done with that language.

Face value coupons, I don't care. I have a cash flow stream of four, four, four, four, one and four.

Right. And I can take the present value of that. Okay.

And if the present value of that at this at, um.

Well let me I'll just ask you this and then I'll, uh, I'll stop and set for next time.

So if the market charge is 6%. Will this bond sell for $100?

100 is the face value. If the market charge is 6%.

Yeah, well, um, if it's 6%, that's at a discount, so, um, I would sell it a lower price.

Yeah, like, I figured this out last time, because, look, suppose you do the thought experiment.

Suppose we bought the bonds and we paid $100 for it.

Well, the first period I'm only getting $4 back, so that's not covering the interest I need at 6%.

So I can't you know, and that keeps you know, that keeps going.

That process keeps going because it's the level coupon payment and all that stuff.

So I can't pay $100 for this.

Fine. So if you go through and figure out the present value of these payments at 6%, you're going to get a number that's less than 100 bucks.

It's got an element of zero coupon. But I just think of it this way. What does a zero coupon bond do?

It means the final payment you that you get has to cover paying you back.

Plus all the interest has to be paid for you all at once, right?

That's what a zero coupon bond does. And they always sell at a discount.

In fact, that's probably I mean chat. No, Claude taught me yesterday or day before yesterday.

That's where the word discount came from, you know, because people would go borrow money with these kinds of promises.

I'll give you $200 next year or whatever, you know, back in the day.

And then they would people would loan in less than they're going to pay back.

So they they would think of that as a discount relative to the face, I don't know.

That's where that that's probably where the word came from. But the notion where what we do now is sick.

How is it itself or versus the face value of the obligation?

Okay. So again, a whole bunch of, uh, a whole bunch of language and so forth that you have to kind of just go with, but, uh, that you have to learn.

But. If there's not that many ideas, right?

But you have to be careful with those ideas. And working with inch by inch.

Yeah.

So to calculate the present value, would you just take each of the values in the cash flow blocks and then divide by one plus the interest rate of 6%.

And then take this to the right number of raise to the right power.

Right. So the first one the first four I get is discounted one period.

The second four is discounted two periods. The third floor is this kind of three periods.

The fourth four is four periods. The 104 at the end is discounted five periods.

Right. So we have to you know, we have to wrestle with all of that.

But it's really just kind of paying attention to detail at a certain point.

Yeah. Once you understand the, you know, the process itself, then there's a lot of details that you have to keep track of in any real case.

Right. You have to. Okay. All right.

So let's end by talking about the present the growth rates. And why does this matter.

Like let's suppose we had 0% interest in 0%.

Well look it never grows. It doesn't change. So you're still going to have a dollar, however long, however far you go.

Okay. What if you had, like what, a 5% interest?

That's what 5% looks like. Okay.

Now one of the things that's going on is because the x axis here is there you go.

Goes from 0 to 18, $1 at 5% be $2.63.

You know, basically, uh, you know, that's looking pretty flat.

But that's only that only looks flat because of the way we scale the y axis.

Uh, what about 10%? What about 20%?

Okay. So now you now you're really starting to see the effects of of compounding.

It's got to be the case that the interest rate has to be kind of big enough.

If the interest rate is right around zero, then compounding doesn't have that much effect.

But if the interest rates get higher, it has more and more and more of effect.

Okay, so this is, um.

You know, one of the things that be going fine is, you know, for a long time after the financial crisis,

interest rates were incredibly low at 2% or something like that, at risk free rate.

So you didn't so the companies didn't get it. But they're going to be kicking in now.

Still, if you have enough money over a longer period of time, that's what it looks like at 25%.

What do you do to keep going 33 to 30%. Okay. But now.

Now look at them. You can look at the interest rates that I.

Used and the gaps between them. You know, you can see that as we went, as we got higher rates, the ending value likely, that's the 25% rate.

But if I just take it up to a third, you know,

that's a big enough rate in a long enough period of time to sort of look at look at what happens to the value.

Okay, so this is why people have to be very, very careful with the numbers, right?

Because they can just take off like this. And, and uh, a lot of the numbers we deal, we deal with now are huge numbers, relatively speaking.

Okay. So this is growth at various rates. Okay.

Out of this skill graph, it's a good idea to have German for next time.

Okay, we're just going to play with this for a while. And like I said, I got a lot of there's some implicit agendas going on here.

Um, and I said what are those.

What is to keep our notes are developing better,

better sense of the word value and how that changes through time with these compounding and discounting processes.

That's one thing for sure. But another thing this does for us, it'll help us in the accounting,

is get us to really hyper focus on time periods, how things evolve over time periods.

It'll get us used to thinking about, well, you know, if you're starting up a business,

your first year might be very different than your 10th year, right?

What do we think is going to happen? What's the process of evolving over time?

And so this the more you know, when I was a student, uh, you know, you got a I got to tell you, one of the things that impeded my learning,

I think, is that you did all these calculations instead of seeing how they unfold one at a time, they just have tab tables of numbers.

You would have to go in and get certain parts of the calculations were just tables, and you'd get it.

And you'd really have to imagine how does it look a good time. Now we just draw a picture.

Okay. So last thing I'll tell you is I think I mentioned this before you go.

Our friend Hunter. Robbie. Um, it is the laws of Harvard.

Robbie. He capped at interest rate. I think the interest rate was 25% or something like that.

Interest rates in ancient times were very high. Um, but he didn't say what time period.

So. You know, it probably implicitly was probably a year or because, you know,

they would think in those economy, students think more in terms of the agricultural cycle, right.

One season. Okay. So we're meeting again Friday, right.

Is it going to be like warmer for us? No, I don't know.

We'll make it. It's okay.

But we'll hammer on this for for a while to get again, to get hypersensitive to the rates and the periods and how that has to light up.

And what are the consequences of this stuff and, uh, so on.

Okay. Have a good day. Did your team win the college football?

Oh, yeah. Sorry for the, uh, like, Excel homeworks.

Would you like us to do it on this, like office simulator if we have a mac?

Or can we, like, do it on the Mac? You can, you know, uh, what do you need to.

