[Auto-generated transcript. Edits may have been applied for clarity.]
Yeah. But, uh.

But. I guess.

It is. It is, it is.

Yeah. Yeah. Yeah.

Yeah. What do?

Whatever. Yeah.

If you could see. Oh. It's Friday. Yeah.

Wrong. Uh, so can you fix it to go all the way to.

It says it's recorded. Yeah. It's recording. Okay. All right.

I'm gonna. I'm gonna see. It won't be.

The thing is, if there's any way to make the point or a bigger plan, you know I can do it right here.

We can do this. Hospital settings.

Well, you know, first of all, I. Oh, yeah.

Yeah. What kind of. Said.

Accessibility. Maybe some modeling or housesitting for white mouse pointer style is for.

I'm glad. Let's just go ahead of time.

This is a monster. It should be a mouse pointer. Whatever it is, I know it's gonna.

Sides here. You got to be happy.

Okay. And you to change the colors. You know we're not going to lose it.

So if there's something we can. You know, I bet you I'm not the only person that has this problem.

Because you lose the battle all the time. Okay. So now I need to.

Animals. Open this.

Then you taught me last time, but I didn't. I went to law school and I couldn't do it.

I trained with people to do that.

You nice. And.

So. Here we go.

I hope you will watch, because this is my phone. Number to my phone.

Know. Yeah. Happens to me all the time.

Uh. Uncle.

I don't know how to do it well. Of the two of it.

So. For checking accounts.

Please wait. And.

I mean, that's now we can call help us. They can buy a school for just one term.

You. Know, this is like a.

Pretty cool way to draw something.

That would be great. Yeah. Okay, so that is more reading order in the corner.

And it's in my coat pocket all the time. If you know, I'm over there on the third floor here and all the way down to that in that corner right there.

Okay, great. Yeah, it's in the jacket. Right in the code. Yeah.

You spring the code. Thanks. Irving is so secure, I can't.

I can't get in. Okay.

It's good that you braved the Friday and the weather, because today it's the day of a field trip.

Yeah. You're excited.

Mean. And it goes for something.

Close. To excel.

One of those games where you think, oh, we can do this.

You may have any question explaining that first. Yeah.

You want to submit it as like a Excel file? Yeah.

Okay. Yeah. Thank you. Oh, good for you.

Oh, wait. You're not mine. Oh, no. I gave up getting really bad.

It's getting bad. Yeah, it's getting to me. Thank you.

Okay. Remember what I what I do? I had to go very far.

Right. I'll see you. Oh, I was I mean, I get it.

I was gonna get it from you if this is what it was.

Okay. Yeah. So you should download the thing.

It'll take us a little bit to get all these logistics worked out. Right. Download it.

Do the problem. Is it upload it to the samples. I think we could help the track because it was involved too.

Yeah. Two things. That's what you came out for. So.

Okay. Yeah. Okay. Let's hear a little bit of the chat.

Okay. I'm worried. I'm ready. So you look at this stuff here.

Yeah, I think I'm going to do it. And it's less likely about cleaning and more security if you don't have any follow up on this.

But I do, actually. It's like you said to me, it was said that it looks like there's more work to be done with it.

Oh, okay. I mean, you know.

This thank you for doing this for years and years, regardless, which of course I do.

So thanks for. Sharing my emails like I used a lot of my classes.

Uh. If you want.

I think we're about to share. And it was like, seriously?

Let's go. Yeah. This is really.

Good. Yeah. This is helpful.

Should I use any more? Is it what we're supposed to like?

We have a good spot here. Yes. Okay.

I'm going to skip this section. So.

Okay, so that's it for this work that you've done here. I was hoping it was really good.

I mean, so I need to. Yeah, I helped with your business, which was mentioned, so.

Yeah. I'm going to invite.

Conversely, every time. You practice, you know, just like it's almost like a race against the swing sets.

First is scared. Of you, that's for sure.

You only want to play for hours like this, not for hours.

0205. That's.

Like one. Not even sentences.

This is East Lansing is 424.

Okay. All right. Finally. Thanks.

We set up. Something in that?

I don't think so. I don't know. It was a confident smart phone number.

Are you okay? I got you. I got you. You know that?

Yeah, that. Okay. So here we are.

What are we doing? Well, we're still practicing. Did anybody try the on the stuff I sent the link to yesterday?

Yeah. Which they did. Okay. Yeah.

It's a little unnerving because of all the stuff I walked through in class.

I put on that. Yeah. Um, so I gotta figure out what they.

I want you guys to help me do is to figure out how we do this.

Teaching dance in the world in which we now live.

Okay. Within the are populated world. Okay.

So. So I actually, uh, I hadn't even started making that side about the time value of money to go to school started,

and, uh, it's accelerated your ability. And one's ability to do that is accelerating very, very dramatically.

Okay. But then. So so the issue is, uh, clearly anything that I have to walk through step by step, I can design one of those in,

or I can have Claude designed one of those interactive things you can go through.

Right. And so if I could, I'm only thinking about the content itself and not about how you necessarily have to learn it.

Then I can say, oh, well, this is everything I'm going to do, right? But then what should class be about?

I think you're going to see where you guys covered people.

Oh, yeah. At some point in high school maybe, or junior high or something by now.

Yeah. So, you know, just like that changed our view about a lot of things, about what has to be done.

And I personally make a prediction that, uh,

it's possible that this technology will call this sort of rethink everything about the forces to rethink everything about education.

For example,

why should this class meet the same number of hours that like a political science class where everything's a discussion or in my law class,

you know, you're learning about how to do a trial and you want to think like a field.

But accounting, there's some of that. There's not that there's not of it, but is it the same proportion that it is in, uh, in some sort of trial?

No. Right. But what are we doing? We're locked into.

Um, so I should say this is the first technology thing I've ever seen coming.

Big time. You know, like, oh, my God, what's this here? But you start thinking about, well, why do we have to meet from this time to this time?

Uh, this into ours. And everything's the same across all the seconds.

Yeah, well, we did that because you had to. Everything had to be done in person, right?

All the communication had to be done in person. It doesn't all have to be done in person now.

So that leads you to think, well, what needs to be done in person? I have a theory about that.

But it's another example of this, which is just that when things are really complex, you need to meet in person, right?

So there are going to be times when we're doing we're practicing things in class,

and I'm going to still do it because complexity complexities different for different people.

But I know for sure that there are certain days when we're going to ramp up the complexity a lot.

And in a way, we're doing that now because you're just learning some of the, the, the stuff.

But, you know, uh, there there are a few days in class where it's.

Yeah, you need we need to be here to sort of experience it because it's going to be, oh, we've done these three things.

Now, let me put it together for you. Right. So I'm going to in fact, I think we might be doing one of those now okay.

Because you by now. What are you doing? You should have. All right.

You know, you sort of know and implicitly that.

Well, you got to figure out what a stream of cash flows is before you can apply this.

First thing is I got to have some stream of cash flows I'm going to apply to.

Right. And we start off sort of doing, uh, very simple, easy ones, which by that I mean, you know, they're the promises are very simple.

Uh, we're going to pay you back X dollars that X period of time we're not considering.

In fact, people may not pay you right. That stuff. So, uh, so we're getting used to the language, really, the language that people make.

Used to make these promises, right? Uh, that that didn't just fall out of the sky.

That was that language was developed over time. Okay.

So you get the cash flows. But but of course, this is another thing that I will be emphasizing.

It doesn't really matter how you get the cash flows to a finance person, right?

I mean, this is this is one way like the Madoff fraud, if you remember it, one reason that these things work is because people when they bought,

when they put their money with Madoff, they only wanted a financial return and there was nothing else.

There's nothing else. Okay, that's not true of everything.

I'm interesting to see. Like like professional sports teams. People seem to like to own those more than just for the economics.

It's worked out very well economically for a lot of these people now.

But how else are you going to get in the news and get all the attention and all that stuff?

You know, you would think that the sports franchises to individuals might sell to premium because they offer more than a financial return,

and they also offer that, you know, whatever else it is fame, blah, blah, blah.

You know, Jerry Jones just likes to be on TV talking about the Cowboys.

Uh, okay. But anything anything that we're only interested in the financial aspect for life.

To prove that they take one of these proteins public.

Suppose the Yankees go public in a corporation, you could buy a share in the Yankees.

Well, some people want to do that just because they can say, hey, I own a sure Yankees or whatever.

Never could but write the name of their paper or anything like that.

So if you change the organization, that might that might change it more, where people are just looking at the cash.

Okay. Or for sure if if the sports team wants to go borrow money, then loaning a sports team money is not, you know, they just want to get paid.

The lenders just want to get paid back, okay. So anything like that, you know.

So, uh, if we can apply these techniques to.

And then once we get the stream of cash flows, it doesn't matter how we get it, then we can start discounting and playing around and all that.

Okay. But you know why we're doing it. We do want to realize that that's that's capturing the financial aspects of things.

And if and if the financial aspects are all that is well, that other is, well, that's great.

But if you were looking for something else to that will be all the analysis you would do.

That'd be part of it. Okay, so once you get the cash flow stream and then you apply these discounting techniques and you have

a way of comparing streams that promise cash flows in different amounts over different periods,

different periods of time. Okay. So um, so we want to get really familiar with that familiarity with that for a lot of reasons.

One is when we start doing the accounting for debt. The accounting for debt is actually done with these techniques.

Okay. So so when we talk about the interest that you earn or that's paid to somebody else, right.

Or that well they're tracking their interest earned on money loan just like we do here.

Okay. Or if they if they I just put it away. If they, um, if they borrow money from somebody, the accounting follows just what we're doing.

All right. So it's useful for, for the accounting just correctly.

But more than that it gives us a, a very special a tight setting to explore the idea of what is value.

How does value change, how do we think about it. And I know I'll do a lot of spoilers,

which if you completely grasp everything that are all the implications of something I say, then okay, you'd be done.

The trouble is, you know, we hear things and we kind of get the idea, but you got to familiarize yourself with it more.

So here's a big idea. That we already, I think, well, what we already started developing, we would just develop it more and more.

The, the way the value created in a period doesn't equal that necessarily the cash in the period.

Okay. If if all we're talking about is financial value, it's related.

You know, the value creation process stream that we're going to show is related to the cash flow stream,

but it's not exactly the same as the cash flow stream. So now we did this a little bit.

You know, we laid the groundwork for this when we started talking about, well, if you have a coupon bond,

what if the interest rates less than the coupon rate owed in the bond sells for a discount?

Now, what does that mean? That means the final payment of the face value is not all a principal return.

So if you think about the principal of the loan as the amount you actually borrowed, the cash you borrowed.

Then that final payment is partly interest, and partly.

The principle or if you think about an annuity.

If you borrow money and promise an annuity, every payment has two components.

Because you got to pay down the total amount that you got that you owe.

It's got to go to zero right at the end. So every time you pay something part of its interest, part of it to repay the loan.

Well how much? How much is what. Okay.

The techniques we used to do that are exactly this. Okay. So it really gives you an idea.

Here we go. To get starts getting you right to the notion that the cash flow stream and if you will, the value stream are related in some way.

Here we're building a model where they're related very through these present value calculations.

But they're not the same thing. Okay.

That makes sense. Now again, if you understood all the implications for that, you're done with accounting.

You're done with a lot of accounting.

You're not done with the part of accounting which has to do with, well, that's what you would think we would the way you would think we would do it.

But we're not going to do that that way. You know, it's it's for some practical reason it's not worth the effort.

It's, you know, gets us into some other problem or whatever.

And sometimes we make these decisions about how we're going to do the accounting just by convention.

So it won't. So you can't possibly figure that out. So that's stuff you need to have discussions about okay.

Okay. But I just wanted to let you know that there's a lot going on right now in terms of the material that you're understanding,

the ultimate themes of even the accounting part of the course. There's a lot going on.

Most people teach accounting, skip this part and then just start going in with kind of folksy, you know, but you have no idea what you're doing.

That's the way I was taught accounting. What do you know? What do you mean? So we all say, oh, well, we're trying to determine the value.

We try automatic. I don't I don't know what you're talking about. It doesn't make any sense to me, okay?

It's one of the advantages I have of teaching at a place where the students are good. I don't have to.

Okay, well. And a disadvantage. I can't tell myself. Oh, they're not ready for that yet.

I don't ever do that. Okay. Um.

As we said, you know, my preference is I use Excel and still do algebra unless the object is really convenient.

So I'm going to show you a case today where the algebra is actually really convenient.

Okay. So that's perpetuity. You know, whenever we talk about something that promises a constant stream of payments forever.

That's a perpetuity. So I didn't realize this.

I was talking to my colleague. We'll get someone who is also an expert in the history of finance.

And he said, you know, what do we do now with something like a coupon bond?

We have a maturity date or even a zero coupon bond.

There's a maturity date. It's all has to be settled by that. So Will was telling me that that was actually an invention, that the first, uh, you know,

I think some of the Italian city states borrowed money and they paid interest in the the instruments they issued.

We're perpetuity. We're going to pay you 20, you know, X you're a month forever.

I would. Okay. Then somebody got the idea.

Well, we don't have to do it that way. We also would that want to talk about what if you have in perpetuity this grows.

This is something you know we're not doing. You know again I think this is an easy way to think about the growth of value and what it does.

The idea of that is a lot of times we're going to use perpetuity if you want to value a business.

You know. Then there's the. How do you do that? Because if it's a corporation, it in theory, is going to last forever.

Right. And so there'll be a point in time where you say, well, I'm going to try to predict what's going to happen up to this point.

And after that, I'm just going to make some assumption that, you know, the cash flow is going to extend forever in a certain way.

We'll see how that works. Okay.

So let's begin with red company bonds.

Uh, let's see if I get this right. Here it is.

Let me blow this up for a second. You know, we have very good, uh, projection things, but sometimes this screen.

Here we go. Okay. So what you see is, uh, a bond market or controls.

Okay. A bond is just a promise to pay.

Yeah. I'm glad you came because it's field trip day, like I said. So follow me.

We're going now. I think safe. We just got to the fourth floor.

While we're at it, I love the architecture of this building.

So come on. So I.

Am. A student of the fourth year.

Then the hotel sinks at the moment loading docks in water.

This gives you a feeling of what it means is. Forces us to consider.

Bring. That would we?

I don't know if do that because I was a baby.

Yeah. That's.

Okay. Right.

Association for justice. Oh, okay. Okay.

Field trip. You got some exercise? Well, you already had.

You guys had to watch over me. Good.

I understand. Yeah. Okay.

So? So all this stuff starts with cash flows and, uh.

What the heck? We might as well learn some special cases, okay?

Because people talk about these things all the time, but I don't know what they mean. You know, it's all the words written up.

There are just different cash flow strings that are promised.

So the coupon bond, you know, it's got a face value, maturity date and a coupon rate.

Zero coupon bond has has a face value and maturity date.

With a coupon rate zero. You're not getting anything until the end. An annuity in arrears is getting the same payment every period.

So you got to say, you know, how much is the payment. What is the period?

When's the maturity date? Okay.

And that's what you're in arrears. You're getting at the end of the period. So say I'm going to pay something in the first period.

I'm not paying my rent upfront. I'm paying at the end of the month. And you know, in advance.

It's just you got to pay in advance so that at every period you make the payment

at the start of the period and in perpetuity in arrears will say is just,

uh, a stream of level payments with no maturity date.

So it's an infinite, um, annuity.

Okay. All right.

So, you know, you might think about in every case,

and I try to design the spreadsheets this way so that you see what inputs you need to calculate the cash flow price.

So you saw written on the bond there's all kinds of fancy stuff.

And you know, what do you need for that? Just those parameters that you worked with in Excel.

What. Okay. No.

No biggie. Okay. Amounts of cash when you're going to get the amount.

What is a period. Right. So I've been I've tried to be very careful and just always use the word period and never say a year or whatever.

Right. Because I want you to be ready for that. You know, what is important is that the whatever array we pick has to be.

Uh, it has to be lined up with the period that we're going to talk about that today.

Maturity date or expiration date. Okay.

Got Tom was Tom. Oh, Tom, I don't know what you're supposed to be volunteered for.

It's my problem. I said, okay, well, you're volunteering, but, uh, I can't remember what I was supposed to ask you, so I come back to you, okay?

I'm glad you came. The very first person in class. This is good. This is good.

Who else is on the list? Oh, yeah. Of course. Gabriel. Yeah.

Okay. And you're Mason. Mason, right? I should remember that, but I am.

Yeah, I'm okay, I okay. All right.

Okay. All right. Maybe I'll ask you questions. Maybe I'll and I don't I'm not a big question guy, but it's okay.

Okay. So if we wanted to look at Excel one, uh, I can do that.

Uh, and again, for a lot of these. Sort of smaller problems.

I won't necessarily go over them like this all the time.

Uh, but. Is this one?

Coupon bonds. What about this?

Is that it? Sell one, I don't know. It in just a second.

Yeah, that's changing interest rates. Right. So I got to get one more, uh, one more thing out of here.

May operate in. Because you want this again.

No, not not calendar. One direction.

Uh. Oh, no. Courses.

Two seven Sri Lanka. This one and oh, Excel one.

That's what I didn't get. Okay. So let's just let's just sort of do it do it here.

And so we get to view full screen okay.

Now I'm also I don't know depending on when you did this uh, you might have had did anybody see something funny instead of Jeff.

Your answer. Now if you if you try to do this on the web that changed the Excel technology.

I first did this and I think I just I had to fix it yesterday to work.

If you use the web basis, it's okay. Right? Uh, all right, so just for a minute.

Whoa, whoa. Hey hey hey hey hey. So is.

Uh. A coupon.

But what do I do? Okay, Tom, I gotta put some put some cash flows in.

Which one's the owner you put in? Um, that one number, one face value or so.

You want to, um, face him at the end of the period to period six, where you pay, you know?

Yeah. Okay. So that's what you got to do. So I know the amount here, right.

And then I gotta count one, two, three, four, five, six.

Okay. So that'll be the end of the sixth period. So at the end of the sixth period I get back the face value.

Yeah, right. Get out. Okay.

Uh, I remember Mason. Yes.

Now what's next? Um. But, yeah, at the end of the period, and through each period, you get 7% or you get the coupon rate.

Right. The face value. So you want to do 7% of 5000. So the other thing that this promises is, uh, the 7%.

Uh, you can do that for this week.

No function. That's for this week. Oh, can I stop this thing from being so helpful?

So anyway, if anybody knows how to do that, let me know.

Times. The face value, right?

So that's 350, is that right? And I'm going to get that six times one.

And so all I have to do is good old Bill gates or whoever.

They know what to do. So there you go. I'm done. Check my answer.

Oh, clipboard. Could you move your. Yes. Hop into something else.

I got this. See this? Or one of the things we have to work out. And I'm glad that, um.

Okay. Oh, I think you have your rules, you know?

Right. I put him in the wrong place.

Okay. Let me. Let me see if I can fix that.

Thanks, Gabriel. Put him in the right place. Be careful.

That's it. Control the vector.

Delete all the dope. Put that there.

Then just. Delete all these guys and put it here.

Oh, no. Let me put it here. See what happens.

Okay. Uh oh. Yellow. Right.

Uh, right. So if I put it out here.

Well that's awesome. Okay, so that's the kind of example of the kind of feedback that you can get.

And a little bit about the process you should go through to just like, wait a minute.

What why am I getting this yellow?

Then you have to go back and rethink your process and say, okay, uh, I put it in and it could be something so mundane as I put it in the wrong place.

Right? So that's why it's yellow. That red. Right.

So how cool. How cool is that? The zero coupon bar.

That's a wonderful. That's an easy one, right? Because we just get paid back to face at in ten period.

Nine periods 1123456789.

First the coupon payments are zero and the face value is, uh, 10,000.

Like. Annuity in arrears, waiting to get 500.

Every period for seven periods. So you see how this specialized language is kind of handy, right?

If you want to make different kinds of promises. Right. See, we talked about, um, uh, Netflix.

Right, with a 90 some billion dollars are going to have to finance.

Right. Well. This is this this is if they if they every piece they finance is one of these kinds of things.

It's very easy to describe what they did. Yeah.

They could of course in today's world make up these 90,000 different payments of different amounts at different times and all that.

And we could probably do it. Well, we could do it, but this this language is just very easy.

Duty in arrears and duty demands. Right? So now, another thing that I'm trying to do here is to really set your mind.

Now I've got the cash flows. Now I'm going to discount. All right.

So that's why it's in a different tab here. Right. It's trying to get you to see these are different steps in the process.

Once I get the cash flows the terms of the bond and all that stuff.

Not of interest I don't know what's that interest rate.

What is this where this thing can come from? One K 25.

Oh. Oh, I see. Uh.

So the discounting formula here, the discount of 8%.

That's the rate. Uh. Okay, so once I get the cash flows, whatever the bonds said doesn't matter.

Now I got a discount at, uh, one plus the interest rate.

So whatever's there. I'm gonna discount one plus.

Oh, yeah. The interest rate. Man, I just, uh.

I really just freaked out. Like I said, you're gonna have to.

Where did you get that help when you started trying to do it as well? Or is it just me with you?

Yes, you. Did you get it? You didn't know what to do.

Huh? So you. So you did it on a desktop version?

That may be. Okay, so the desktop version, I'm sure is not hooked up to the I the same way that this web version is.

That's what's going on.

So I like doing the web version because we can all you can see what's happening on your computer if you log into it and everything.

But somehow I got a figure that said, these are some of the challenges that new technology brings about.

Okay. F4. Right. And then, like I said, you can be very tricky.

Uh. And yeah, I know this.

There's the answer here is hidden. So I don't know.

Another thing it might be doing is an understanding that this sheet's the same as what is hidden from you.

And just going in there. I don't know, I don't know.

The first of many challenges. Okay, then I'm going to discount that back to time zero.

So so when I put that formula and what does that do that sticks to the present value of the 350 as of time zero.

Okay. And now all I have to do is. So the present value of the bonds is $4,769.

This makes sense that we should stop and think about that.

Why is it less than 5000? The face value is 5000, but the present value of the cash flows is only 4769.

Why? Yeah. Your ability to do anything with the $4,769 right now is the difference between that and 5000.

Oh not really. Not really. It's simpler than that.

And yet that the interest rate is higher than the coupon.

It's because the interest rate is higher than the coupon rate.

Okay if the interest rate is higher than the coupon rate. So to think about what that means.

So when we're sitting there getting 350. Yeah.

You know, if I had if I hadn't paid $10,000 for this.

350 wouldn't cover my interest cost at 8% because 350 is 7%.

Of the face. So what that means is that in order to get fully compensated for 8% interest, I'm making some of that, some of that in payment.

That face value payment is actually interest not repay the loan.

Okay, so this is the kind of stuff. Oh, this is helping me out a lot to see where you are.

All right. Okay. So the clearest case for that is a zero coupon bond.

Oh, let's let's check our answer. This is a coupon to check your answer.

Okay. Got that right. Let's check this answer. Uh, check.

Check. My answer. I said check my answer. Oh, I like my answers.

Right. Okay. Let's, um. Look, look, look.

Let me do this. Like I said, just fill the form.

They're ready. So with a zero coupon bond, then it's really clear, right?

Because you're not getting any, any payments.

So the final payment of $10,000 out here. The final payment of 10,000 on this zero coupon bond.

That's got to be repaying what I loaned them. Plus compensating for all the interest.

Right. And so that's got to sell at a discount.

Now that's where the word discount came from, actually.

I learned that from Claude. Okay. Claude told me where the word discount came because people would, uh, make a promise like this.

Hey, I'll pay you back, you know, 10,000 C-Series in eight years.

And the person says, fine, I'll.

I'll give you 7026 for it now. So relative to the ultimate payment, you go, oh, that's a discount.

What's in a discount for, well, interest. Right. So the price that this thing sells for is less than the face you get.

Again, you got to think about somebody that made it up an issue to it.

What do you mean? Why don't you give me the face value? Well, because your coupon rate is, uh, 7%.

But, hey, the market moved. It's 8% now.

So for a long time, people, when they made up the bonds or sometimes people try to make the coupon rate equal to the interest rate.

But nobody's got a crystal ball, so they can't tell what the interest rate is going to be.

There's charge to them. Yeah. What happens if the coupon rate is equal to the interest rate?

Okay. Within the coupon rate's equal to the interest rate. Then everything lines up perfectly.

So the coupon payments just cover your interest. Right?

And the face value is the amount you. You love it. Okay.

So let's go back. Let's go back to, uh, to this.

And let's just say the interest rate instead of 8% was 7%.

What happened? Oh, it's yellow because it disagrees with the answer.

Yeah, because the answer is 7%. But look what happened to the present value, right?

It's exactly $5,000. Why? Because every period they're paying that this thing compensates for the interest that's due.

And so we start off at 5000 and then interest accrues and it gets paid.

We're back to 5000. The interest accrued and it gets paid.

We're back to five. That we're back to 5000. We're back to 5000. Okay.

So that's the process that you got to be thinking about and working through time because.

The things we're thinking of as value. Are evolving in a different way than the cache.

That's what's happening.

So I said earlier on, it's incredibly I mean, this took people like thousands of years to figure out the right language for this, right?

Like I said last time, I mean, the best Virginians were charging interest before they could, before they knew about wills.

Okay. But do they have all the full firepower of understanding how everything's connected to everything?

And I think we do now. And that took a really long time.

In fact, the people that really [INAUDIBLE] the crap out of it were the detainees or the Italians at some point,

and then maybe somebody somewhere else, I don't know, but they had a few advantages, I think, in that paper.

Right. But here's another advantage they had. The way you write down numbers.

So if you did, if you did, um, the learning accounting website, there's a little thing saying we're going to have a lot of notation in accounting.

Not a lot. We have a couple of, couple of very good ways of writing things down.

It drives me insane that many accounting professors, if they're not teaching people, as do accountants, they don't teach the notation.

They say, oh, you don't need to know. First of all, have you. Have you detected this in your lives yet?

Anybody says you don't need to know that. Or you can just think of it like this.

Get ready for the B.S. They're not telling you the story, right?

And it's kind of funny. This is my teaching style as I prepare these online things.

And Claude makes comments. So because Claude, when it when it responds, it tends to respond what the average sort of what's at its prediction.

Right. And so I have to correct it. Sometimes I'll say I don't like that.

And then many, many times what it says about what I blah.

He said, oh that's more honest. I said, well, I never thought of it that way, but yeah, that's more honest.

I'm not trying to fool you into getting you somewhere by tricking you in some sense.

Because if you don't, if you do that and the person doesn't understand why they went where they are, what happens when things change big time?

You don't know what to do, right? So this is an interesting thing.

You guys are going to about these many changes, but many of them are technological.

Now you're going to find out who understands how things work and who doesn't.

Because the people who don't really know how things work. And then you ship you you have a you have a tectonic movement.

Not not like as long as things kind of continue on the way they were then, you know, maybe whatever rules of thumb, you have worked fine.

But if the whole world changes in a big way, you're screwed. What you should.

The nice thing about being in class with your classmates and being here is we can actually talk about how things work.

And not to say this get by. Oh, learn this so you can do your job tomorrow.

Uh, we don't do that for good reason.

Yeah. So if I'm a loner, I want to moderate to be higher than the interest rate.

Not necessarily. Okay. So.

So, like, let's take Netflix when they're planning what they're going to issue.

Their problem is they have to come up with the cash at the time to make their payments.

Okay. So when they're thinking about they're thinking about a lot of stuff.

Some of them is if they make promises in certain ways, maybe the market chart has a higher interest rate for that.

I don't know, like, yeah. Uh.

IBM. I don't know, but if.

But let's just forget about that for a second.

Just think that no matter what, no matter the no matter how we promised today, something would be given present value.

The market will take it. It's not going to charge us any differential discipline on how we answer it.

So we assume that. Then if you think about the issuer of one of these things,

they're trying to figure out how much do I want to borrow and what kind of cash flow payment schedule do I want to lock myself into.

All right. And, uh, so that's what will determine what combination of things they offer.

Right? It's, it's if there's no market differential, they gotta makes it more of a cash management problem at that point too.

So what they have to think about is, uh, I'm not going to lock myself into something that costs from you to pay for it when I don't have the cash yet.

You know, like, maybe maybe I'm a startup company. I don't want to.

I don't want to issue coupons. I don't have it.

You know, I have to just take part of what I borrow and hold it back to, to pay the interest.

Because my operations are generating any cash. Right.

So, you know, the the idea is simple, but when you start trying to apply it, it's very judgmental, very tough.

Right? But the toughness is more what you understand the ideas.

You can see the application is actually very hard.

Does that make does that help? That's the kind of thing a debt issuance.

I mean, just think if you were buying a car or something on credit, you would want to think about what kind of payments could you make.

And you can have it you can borrow on it for three years or for five years or for this or for that.

But you don't want to set up the loan is guaranteed, or, you know, that causes you to be put in a bind when it comes to making something.

Okay. Okay.

Okay. So that's all you do. Right in terms of the the map, but it's very helpful to have some things very, very clear in your mind.

What's the what's the the cash flow stream now.

What's the interest? How's the interest working on that? Because the cash flow stream is determined by the piece of paper or the promise that I make.

But the economics of the deal are determined by the market.

So a lot of times, like I said, people might try to write and put it if they want a coupon by,

you know, maybe they want to try to make the coupon rate equal to the interest rate.

It's almost impossible. Was never is exactly. Okay.

Because let's talk about where do we get these interest rates right.

I'm like, well, I don't want to put that off a little bit. I want to go to another another special a few special cases,

and then it'll be easier to see what we're talking about because we're acting as if the interest rate is known.

But when Netflix is going to borrow a bunch of money, does it know the interest right now that it's going to be charged?

No, it doesn't know. Okay.

So. Oh. Oh, this is so funny.

I, like I said, I found it very, uh uh uh uh uh uh, I, I find it disturbing that I enjoy this stuff so much.

It's not really disturbing. Okay. Slideshow.

Okay. All right, so that's compounding and discounting.

And again, a lot of the stuff we're going to do is just to get us more and more familiar with it okay.

All right. So here's a perpetuity C dollars forever.

Okay. All right. No termination date.

No nothing. Just every period. You get the same.

Okay. Now.

If this is now. One, two.

This period. One. Period two. Time three. Time four.

So this this thing says you're going to get C dollars for that one.

Okay. How do I think about that? It was suppose the interest rate.

So I should write down. That's the cash flow.

Your stuff in the market determines the interest rate R is equal to.

But the interest rate is R. Okay.

Anybody got any intuition? Here's a way to think about it is if I'm never going to get any terminal payment.

Then every payment of C has to cover an interest expense on the loan.

It's never getting paid back. If the payment doesn't cover the interest, the amount would grow.

But I can never get it back because the amounts are just constant.

If the payment was like an annuity with a fixed maturity date, it was a payment of both the print that represented both principal and interest.

Then I was going to go over them. No, can't happen because the payments are always deceit.

Okay. So whatever the value of this thing is and this is determined by the market, the value of.

Uh, si, si, si.

Whatever that is. The interest rate times the value.

Has got to be equal to. This is all market stuff.

That's that's all that's kind of equal to see dollars. Right.

So I just wrote down a formula for the interest rate. Whatever. Uh, you know, whatever I think of myself loaning.

In exchange for a perpetuity of C dollars.

The periodic payments just have to cover the interest.

So I take well, I don't know what I loaned them, but what I'm getting is the rate of the interest rate times the amount of the payment.

Okay. So if we do algebra on this. Then you find out that a perpetuity is going to sell for C divided by the interest rate.

Simple. Makes sense.

And I did this for a long time to the person who taught me that intuition.

Yeah, because, uh, my former business partner was one of the geniuses of finance of all time.

Unfortunately, I did pass away, but that's where I learned this reasoning.

And why don't you do it? Yeah, it's really worth it.

Think that through if you didn't get it. If you don't have a really solid.

And then throw away the answer and go back and say what's going to be the, uh.

The answer. Okay. Does that make sense?

Yeah. But is it like the value of all of those periods?

Yes. So, for example, let's put some numbers to it.

Right. Uh, let's suppose I think I probably would do that, but I don't have.

Let's see. See over our.

There you go. So let's take an example. Now government still issue.

These things are sometimes called consoles or um.

And they've been issued by the British government.

So let's suppose one pays, one council pays you $100 per period forever, and that the relevant interest rate is 10%.

Okay, then how much would this sell for?

$1,000. So think of it this way.

If you loaned $1,000 to the British government and they paid you $100 per period,

you're getting 10% of that thousand year loan and they're never pay you off.

They're never, never, never saying, oh, and here's your thousand back.

So they constantly owe you $1,000 that I constantly have interest costs of 110% of it.

Makes sense. Okay, so I'm starting to do something.

Uh, also very subtle. I'm starting to talk more about what these things sell for in a market than interest rate and stuff.

Like, I'm starting to talk about how we go about figuring out or estimating the interest rate from market data.

So I think that's going to actually be next. Let's see.

Uh. Now.

Okay, so here you go. This is.

This is how we actually get data on interest rates. We have to observe what happens in the markets.

So suppose we have the British government they auction off.

A console that pays $100 per period forever. Because that's what they're going to do.

Right. They're going to say, hey, we want to sell this to somebody. So that's what Netflix does when it's thinking about financing these things.

It's got to make financial instruments that people buy, right.

And and we call that. We call that borrowing when the payment.

But in certain cases we might call it issuing shares of stock.

In another case depending on what kind of claim is being issued. Right.

But the point is that, uh, before they issue it, they don't know what they're going to be able to get people to pay them for it.

So like the U.S. government does this every day and they have these massive auctions.

Of T-bill auctions, and everybody all over can bid for, uh, these different securities.

Okay, so so suppose the British government wants, um, wants to borrow some money and it arranges to have an auction.

What is it auctioning off? It's auctioning off a promise.

Like on those pieces of paper out there. Right.

The promise is $100 per period forever. And then they sit back and wait and see how much it sells for.

So I said, okay, so let's do that.

So suppose we auction it off and we say, hey, it's sold for $1,250.

Right. That's just data from the world. This was all, you know,

the market produced that or markets and the demand for the instrument produced the competition among those people that demand it,

that produced the $1,250. I.

So in essence, what's happening here is that now we're going to start doing the accounting and the part of it.

I'm going to look at this and I'm going to say, well what happened here.

