[Auto-generated transcript. Edits may have been applied for clarity.]
Which? You all I know.

And. When you.

Change. You know.

Christy. Thank.

You so much. Oh, my.

Goodness. Oh, my.

Goodness. So this.

Is just a. 50 page.

Hey! That's. Let's.

See? Okay. So this.

Is good. Let's take action on autopilot.

So far, so good. Okay.

Okay. But I feel like this is a nice conciliatory slide.

Yeah. Let's go. For that one.

Um. One of.

The numbers should be okay.

Okay. So I was at least a year ago.

So I say, well, I never met. With Josh.

Is it all right? But I. Guess I'll just.

Maybe I'll talk to you later.

Yeah. Oh, yeah. Yeah. I agree with you.

Uh, yeah, I was about 5 or 7 points.

Or not. Yeah. It's like this process was to take a visit to bolster.

Customer support? Yes.

Okay. So he's back. Is there anything?

Else? No. You know what I'm saying?

It's just that it's kind of like.

That's just a Christian basic barbecue or anything.

Right. You know, but then that's it for.

Us. So it's like. Oh, yeah.

Oh, yeah. You know what I have said? Because I always thought it was just a number of requirements to get that.

We probably just talked about that. Yeah.

I think, you know, the second one is okay.

Oh, yes. Yeah.

That is a nice break.

But yeah. There were 24 cases like yeah, I want you to get a job and I have a server.

Oh, yeah. Let's do this. You know, I can tell you, you know, and, I mean, it's not.

This looks crazy over here.

Yeah. Yeah. That's his creation story.

So ideally, I would have one person brush it in half an hour.

I don't want to exact revenge tour graphs. Or I could see, like I said, integrals, like, oh, I forgot this, uh.

Or this. Company or that one.

That would be like. Oh, by the way, it's huge.

Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Okay, okay. So that's pretty much what I mean.

Yeah. Like I said, it was so exciting because I.

Was like, Troy's highly brilliant. This is because it's bad.

Because I also like that, you know, because I tried to actually, you know, he's like.

Yeah. He's. Since it was like, all the freshmen stay on campus, right?

Well, of course you finish it for six months to also.

Yeah. That's true. But I wasn't doing it because I was like, Franklin or Murray.

Yeah. Nice little contrast. Yes, exactly. I guess that is why I have.

This thing that works for you. That's true.

I tried it once, but I never knew about it. So there's no way to look at the other person?

No, I agree. I mean, I really had to come to them.

Yeah. How could you have never let us focus on this? Okay.

Oh. That's right. You're going to do your job right here.

You know, I don't know which is best for you.

Yeah, I guess, but here I go. Uh, Felix.

All right. So that's what we did. I don't know what I look like.

I know I couldn't do it. Oh, yeah.

Let's do the next year.

Um, I know I can't tell you right now because you're not listening.

Somebody call us. Really? Seriously?

That's it. But that's not what we're used to.

So this is like, for us. Oh, okay.

I see you use your voice. Sounds like I don't realize what's going on.

Yes. Oh, yeah. Yeah, yeah.

But you have to close to this thing. Yeah, I guess I could reach out to you, right?

Yeah. I could simply go back to your gathering, but I know you have.

Information about what it's like to watch the horse.

We just didn't do anything else. It's all the same question.

Yeah. Yeah. Oh, he is like a father.

Okay. It's just like a small piece of anxiety that was like.

Oh, this was.

This was more like. She was like, really cool.

This happened to me and all I got to do the whole, you know, I know the name taste of Heaven is credible about yourself.

Oh, yeah. To this point, because it's like, oh, it's going to be like this.

This was. Like, I had lived here since 1985 and that's never happened.

I had a 30 minute commute for a half mile down Whitney Avenue. That's crazy.

Okay. Sorry. Uh, let's see if I can get going.

Sure. Yeah. Uh, she didn't want us.

To. Good.

That's good. But it's just 20.

Okay. It's always good for you to do this.

But. Only here. What?

You can do it for no reason.

It's like I do it myself. She's like, you know.

It's like there's. After.

All this is not for I think of it this way. I'm just.

Very, very. Restless with this whole.

Idea of the brand. I realized this is a gift.

It's. Just.

You know, I felt so. Clean here.

But it was really. Just there.

Yeah, I read about. It.

That's what I'm saying. Yeah, that's my biggest fear. It's like, oh, do I want to sleep in this?

New circle. And this here is what we're.

Doing. That's the secret. That was.

Let me. Just.

Slip. Into that place.

There's this equation. You don't have to.

Is it okay? Yeah.

Together. It looks great. So I guess you also had a deal on grenades where you can get some unsupervised shopping in the car?

Yeah. Um. Yeah, yeah, let's start shooting.

Right. I think. It's like this one.

Oh. Oh, no. I should have do this.

This is the best strategy for school. Oh, I love your one.

I saw him. Doing this time.

Yeah. Really? You know I have to do this.

Oh. Oh. You in a hole in golf?

Tennis? That's okay. Today, uh, is kind of an important day, but it's really a lot different than any other day we have.

Okay. Because, uh, we got to talk about business entities.

So whenever we do accounting, we're about to just whip.

So this is what's going to happen. Okay.

After today we will do a little example sort of all the way through all of the accounting, uh, just to sort of so you get a big overview of it.

I'll take a few days, but then we'll get into real nitty gritty accounting.

But one of the first things about about it is that that accounting is done for someone we call an entity.

It could be a person, it could be, uh, government.

It could be a nonprofit entity. Whatever. Okay, so we really have to we should really talk about that first.

Uh, before we before we really get going. Okay.

So, you know, since we've lived in, uh, in moderate economies, you already know this, but we've got to explicitly identify it.

You know, most economic activity is conducted through, uh, business entities that are separate from their owners.

If you're not going to take I want to show you how far that goes and why that's true and so forth.

Right. But the business entity is a separate thing from its owners or a nonprofit organization.

In fact, Yale doesn't have any concept of any owner.

Right? There's some sort of governance. But yet Yale is a thing.

You know, how does that work? All right.

We need to talk about this. Okay. Uh, mainly it's a risk control device so that when I.

For example, if I'm going to be an expert in a legal case,

I don't do that as regard until the person I do that through a limited liability company that if something happened in some something got sued,

it would be the company that gets sued, not me. Okay.

And so I can't lose my house at 217 Carter Street because it's some business thing that I did now.

Okay. So so that's the idea of limited liability.

It doesn't if you can't come in and get the assets of the owners of the building, you can get the the entities, assets and so forth.

So it's a big risk control device. That's the most important thing.

Like I said last time is the most important risk control device by far of anything we have.

Right. I think we we talked a little bit on zoom about how do we deal with risk.

Well, one thing, one way we deal with it is we might be able to have insurance.

So what's insurance? Insurance is we take we share losses.

So everybody pays a fee so that if you have a loss, you don't bear the whole cost of the loss.

The insurance company reimburses you.

What does that mean? That means the money that they've collected from the other people is given to you because you had the loss.

And we talked a little bit how that only works actually in environments where there can't be too much information.

There can't be too much information ahead of time about who is going to get the hit with the loss,

because otherwise, you know, who wants to join a pool where this is.

This is a real problem with with insurance generally because who wants to pool join a pool

to share risk with people who are doing far crazier things and riskier things than you are,

or that have some characteristic that makes them more likely, the more likely to have a loss than you.

This is the whole issue about preexisting conditions and medical and medical insurance, or certain types of genetic testing,

which might reveal that, yo, I have a pre I have a genetic predisposition to X or Y or Z.

Well, that may lower actually anyone's ability to get insurance against that because who

wants to who wants to come in with me when I'm much more likely than you to have it?

So that's insurance. Okay. Uh, another way then we talked about people deal with that risk is likely is called hedging.

What's hedging. Well hedging is is to find a person who's who's naturally on the other side of what you are and, and.

So if I have a wheat farmer and, uh, I'm affected by the price of wheat, but the price goes up, I'm better off.

If it goes down, I'm worse off. So maybe I find it.

I find, uh, go directly to wheat users like bakers and so forth, and I just make a private deal with them, locking in their price ahead of time.

So if the price goes up. Well, yeah, I would have benefited with the farmer with a loss.

So the farmer doesn't lose his, I mean, sorry, the baker with a loss. So the baker doesn't lose as much.

The price goes down, it goes the other way. So that's you.

You have to be careful when people toss around the word hedge fund, because that's not what most of them do, okay?

They're not really hedging risk. You know, they're doing all kinds of other types of investments.

But the pure word hedge is exactly that.

And people do hedges all the time. They do hedges all the time.

And, uh, you know, the accounting for them is sort of interesting.

We'll, we'll, we'll get to some of the problems there. Okay.

So but hedging so insurance and hedging are the two ways you can deal with

risk if you're sort of out on your own without any other social constructions.

Those are just deals. We can make contracts we can pay. But the notion of being able to construct them,

being able to do your activity in a limited liability and entity is another kind of contractual, uh, uh, promise, um, protection.

But it's more of a legal thing than it's not an individual contract that we do.

It's sort of we're going to set the rules of the game at a very high, as high level to allow people to do this.

Okay. And as I said, we got to talk about this for many reasons, not the least of which this is a class in,

um, the foundations of accounting and valuation value what we value entities.

We played fast and loose with this so far, right?

Because we just looked at cash flow streams and implicitly the cash flow stream of what we have and talked about it.

Okay. Uh, now, uh, to go way back before you were born, there have been all kinds of, um, scandals and abuses of this notion.

And if you hear people talk about the company Enron back around 2003 of who was who was bought into that before 2003.

Oh, well, you are, uh, right. Two of us. 030, of course.

Right. But that's it. Right. Well, you know, what they were doing was they're playing fast and loose with the idea, which is this is how you do it.

Okay? It's kind of like a show game, right? Where you put a bunch of containers out so you make another company.

All right. You create this other company and then you sell.

You sell things to it. Well, you can't sell something to yourself.

Right. So the whole the whole thing comes out. Well, when I look at the world, it is all about looking at the same entity or different entities.

Or how does that work? Does it make sense? Okay.

And then. All right. What's this?

Maybe. Maybe David Vidal might know what that is. The start of Lion Man or whatever.

Okay. This is. The earliest known artifact is.

Yeah, this is as of a few years ago, about 32,000 years ago.

That is completely the figment of people's minds.

There are no beings. That look like?

That right? So it's a complete human.

Fabrication. Right.

The ability of the human mind to imagine things that do not exist.

Okay. What's that? Well, you can just read.

It's a logo with a Peugeot car company, right? It's.

You know, that image? That lion image is kind of reflected by this play, by the thing we still use today.

But what is that that symbolize you?

Or it's an icon or a symbol of. Another thing that doesn't exist except in our bodies, which is the Peugeot car company.

What if we just woke up tomorrow and said.

Like, for example, Yale. It doesn't exist.

What would any law of the universe kind of stop us from doing that?

No. What would happen? Well, I wouldn't be in class because I'm not going to get paid.

You wouldn't bother to come to class because you know that there's this arrangement of it.

Yeah. Just stop. Right. And the only thing would have to happen is we just have to stop believing it.

Right. It's not like anything actual was destroyed. Yeah. I guess what?

I drive down with the avenue, and I look at this building, I say, well, what's that building?

I don't know. You know, it's kind of weird. It's got these seats of interest.

We don't say, oh, that's part of Yale, right? Okay.

Corporations. Uh, when would we form that?

When we form them, we said we'd incorporate them. Now, you said I'm from a small high school in Oklahoma where the.

Where the football coach taught English, senior English.

And his definition when they come to the area is that he's got no teaching role.

So its definition of a noun was a word like table, chair or tree.

Okay, I said. This is. That's not a definition.

He was. I was not a popular kid. Oh, yeah.

Uh, so, I don't know, Latin roots of things my kids do or whatever route it is, but but can anybody help me out with.

What you think the route of incorporation might be? Yeah.

Corpo. Corpo which is bottom right.

It's bottom. So we incorporate something, you know, we bring this body into existence, right?

But I should say, as an aside, since it's America, my kids could tell you what the glamor says as they went to private school.

But anyway. Okay, so we say we incorporate things.

So how do we incorporate something? How do we bring this into existence?

We go into the teachings of this. We have a series of rituals that we go through the rituals.

What are these rituals? Well, we make out certain documents.

We file things, we sign things. You know, that's the kind of rituals I'm talking about.

Okay, so if we go over to the teaching note, I'll talk about some of those rituals in, uh, in the US.

Okay. Okay.

Oh, no, I didn't, I didn't I'm sorry, I didn't I didn't want to do that. Um, so with these rituals in the there's.

Right. Glass that way, and it closes in.

Uh. Well, what we have to do is this is a certificate of formation.

Okay, so here's that. Here's how, sir, the rituals work.

First of all, on the United States, the each state is the thing that's empowered to.

Create these entities. So there's 50 different ways we could 50 different states.

We could incorporate it. So many states.

You probably know that there are many, many corporations you might know are Delaware corporations, small state, lot of corporations.

We can come back and talk about that. Well, why would we, you know, why would that be?

You know, why wouldn't you have to incorporate in the state here? Well, I'll tell you, because what are you getting?

Would you be more of a company? You're getting subjected to certain state laws.

Right. So over time, Delaware created.

Got to have an environment. That had state laws that people likes to like for their businesses.

And yeah, I don't know. Um, law in the United States, we know about law in the United States, as there's kind of two main ways that we have laws.

One of them are acts of Congress. That's usually what we think of as we pass a law.

But another very important source of the law is it's called common law.

This is actually all they have in England, which is the rulings of courts.

This is how we interpret this or that. So what's Delaware kind of got rolling if you think about it.

They also had more action in their courts. And there again, there were civil courts.

And so it became more predictable. What what would happen to you in Delaware then?

It would happen somewhere else. Okay.

So if I you know, if Delaware had all kinds of precedents going on and Connecticut had done well, that could be incorporated in Connecticut.

But what's going to happen when we have a dispute that's not covered by a statute?

Here's other things like not everything's covered by a statute.

You can copy you can't write down physically every rule for everything we do.

So a lot of times we just decide after the fact. Is this fair it out there.

We make some judgments. We make some classifications. You know, like if you commit a crime, is it murder in the first degree?

Is it manslaughter? Whatever.

And then we start having all these criteria about how we how we're how we're going to call something

this or call something that does a lot of accounting in that we're going to get back to that.

Right. And this is, this is that part of the carry will be pretty crazy.

A lot of times the numbers are easy to figure out with what do we call it.

Uh, that's a different story. Okay.

So so that's so Delaware. All right.

So I'll tell you when I formed this company. When, uh.

Wow. If you're this young, uh, well, we didn't made off on the first day, right?

And so in the process of cleaning up, made of all kinds of litigation, blah, blah, blah, go along.

But then there comes a point where all that's been settled and the only thing left, if you remember back to the first day,

we took whatever we could have gotten from Bernie Madoff, uh, a few hundred million, probably something like that.

But then we also went to everybody that was that was a winner and clawed back.

That's what they call it, a clawback of their winnings. And we use that to compensate people who lost.

We don't take away, you know, let's think about different ways we could do that.

We could just have everybody put everything back in.

Whether you and Moore share the loss equally, don't do that right.

So some people end up breaking even. Some people end up getting hurt.

Okay, but that at that point that's just a matter of trying to go get as much cash as you can and distributed among the people that lost.

So you got to figure out how much did you lose and where do they lose? All kinds of stuff.

Okay, so there was a, uh, the Greenwich Century funds were called hedge funds.

Uh, they were part of a huge thing called Fairfield Century.

Remember this from the first day in Greenwich by a guy named Walter Noel?

And, um, so, you know, they'd given all their money to Enron and, um, I think,

you know, after making Madoff, Madoff goes bust, people find out about it.

So then a whole bunch of other entities bankrupt,

including the Greenwich Century and Greenwich Century Partners Fund, all kinds of litigations happened.

The last stage where we start going out the cash, they form a trust.

Another legal fiction. Right to form a trust, the entity that has a bank account and stuff like that.

And I was appointed to be the trustee of the trust to liquidate two of the funds, the Greenwich Century funded Greenwich Century partner funds.

Incidentally, the funds the one of the funds was for outside customers.

But another one of the funds, the Greenwich Century Partner funds, that was for people that worked for Greenwich Century.

So? So even people who were you think, oh, well, there must be on the inside of this.

No, they lost money. So that's part of the evidence that they weren't actually involved in the fraud.

They themselves were also defrauded. All right.

But the point is that. What was I doing? I was.

Well, lawyers on my behalf, you know, would go out to you and say, hey, it's all well.

You know, you've got an extra $15,000.

You took out 15,000 more than you put in. Give me the 15,000.

Very unpopular thing, right, about people.

Yeah, well, those are my investment. Give me the money. Right. And then we buy.

You buy, and then you buy. Say, well, we're not going to. I can't give you a 15, but how about five and married Gucci?

Uh, I don't know. We never got we never went to court with anybody. Actually tried to claw things back.

But, you know, that threat was hanging over your head. That's how that that's that's a pretty rough sport, right?

So what I did. Oops. What happened here? Uh, we went to sleep.

So, uh, recognize me?

Okay, so. So what I did was, as I said, I wasn't the trustee myself as a person.

The trustee was a company that I formed.

Right? That you want to talk about? How far is this ritual go?

Well, for one thing, look at the name of the company. When you start a company, you have to pick a name.

But I can't start a company in name of Yale, right?

Or I can't start a company name in Apple Computer. So you have to pick a name that doesn't isn't already something that's been heard.

So this is a common trick to 17 characters. By address, by home address.

So are you. Nobody has started a business entity called the 2017 Care Associates, right?

Now, if they have been, what I hear back from the Delaware Secretary of State is can't have that name, right.

But that's why a lot of limited liability companies have a little funky there.

Right, because you just have to pick something that that isn't already being taken.

Okay. And so you file this, you do we do this ritual, you know, whatever rituals we have and it's,

you know, writing a letter, writing to them, going to this, um,

authority, the Delaware secretary of state and saying, we want you to grant us this piece,

this information really, which will be inscribed on this piece of paper.

It's a certificate of formation to see.

That's all this is just being created by out of our heads.

All right. Uh, then there's all kinds of things you have to do.

Like you have to if you get incorporated into a certain state, you have to have some representative there.

And there are companies that specialize in doing this.

They charge you a few hundred bucks a year, and all they do is just collect their fees, basically.

Right. So Delaware of course, is also going to tax you. Right.

So there are going to be fees uh, to stay in Delaware.

Uh, Corporation. You don't pay Delaware state tax.

You pay that you paid, um, income taxes and sales taxes and stuff in the state that you earn it or that you buy.

So. So this is not that. So it's, you know, a few hundred bucks a year.

Okay. But you got to have some representatives. So if you do something and somebody wants to sue you, they could go to somebody in Delaware.

Okay. All right. Uh, so what does it say?

Here's the. Oh, I'm bringing in. This is the birth certificate for the company.

Right? So if for no actual thing was bought. Where?

Yeah. Nope. Nobody was there. But it's a birth certificate, right?

Um. June 17th, care associates limited liability company.

Now, we should talk about this, this LLC business when you form one of these entities.

Um. We don't.

There's not just one kind that you could for. There's a bunch of different companies.

Right. So. Yeah. So one kind is a, uh.

A lot of that. One kind is a corporation.

You know. So. So that's where, I mean, the big companies was always corporations.

So what they have is shareholders here.

Shareholders? That is their owners of the corporation they own.

They own shares in the corporation. And then they might have customers over here.

We come over here like that.

Okay. Now when the corporation.

What happens is when the company earns money from the customers.

Then the corporation is taxed.

Okay. Now, how do the people.

How do the shareholders ever get any thing out?

Well, one common way is dividends. So what's a dividend?

A dividend. Might be cash, might be something else, but let's just say cash.

Right now, the corporation pays its shareholders and dividend.

Oh, you have you had 100 shares and the dividends a dollar a share.

Here's your 100 bucks. Now, here's the thing with the corporation.

Individual income taxes. Are levied on that.

Okay, so as I said, it's very hard to.

If, if, if some bad thing happens and, uh, or it is done or perpetrated by a corporation,

then it's very hard in the legal system to do what's called pierce the corporate veil.

What's piercing the corporate veil means it means go being able to go all the way back to these people to recover.

Okay. Now, you can't do that at times, because whenever we have this kind of ritual, we have to be aware of the fact that it could be manipulated.

So somebody could set up a corporation, but do not treat it like a separate entity.

You know, they just didn't just treat it as if it's their own business. That's what.

So how would you do that? Well, you pull the cash, the business cash with your cash, you don't ever.

Uh, that's that's bad. Right? That's a signal that you're not really treating the entity separately from yourself.

Right. Oh, and it does business out of my house, by the way.

Well, where does it. Where is it specific? Oh, no, I just there's no specific room.

That's my business. This is everything. So, uh.

Oh. I'm putting the corporate veil in trouble.

Right? So these rituals, we give them sort of meaning by kind of requiring that you treat things as if they really by the rules.

So if you have a business person that thinks they're above all these rules and just does whatever they want,

I want you understand what a what a fundamental attack on the civil society that really is.

Right. That is, you know, we've agreed to these rituals for a certain purpose.

And it's and it's they seem silly like, know, getting this birth certificate at this company or whatever,

making making sure the company has its own bank accounts,

go to my account and all this stuff that even if I, even if I control all the cash coming in and out of it,

you know, I have to have the trappings of a corporation, if not, uh, of a separate entity.

I have to have a lot of the trappings that it's really a separate thing.

Okay. So so like I said, the, the corporate, um, law is that's what you form.

If you're really worried about, you really want a lot of distance between you and the liability.

Okay. So another company I formed what's my business.

Yeah. So quick question. If you're the only shareholder in your corporation and you and it's run out of your house.

Yeah. And you issue yourself, but you have two separate accounts and you issued yourself a K-1 every year from corporate.

Yeah. Is that enough of a separation for for that's a step that helps.

If you don't do that then you're more at risk of being ruled.

It may not be enough. You know, the question is, what else do you do with everything?

But you just you subscribe to hear what you just described, setting up these things that go through that, that you say, okay, well, uh, yeah.

That who's bank account is that? Oh, that's not mine. That's the corporations.

Okay. So yeah, you do stuff like that.

And it's evidence that if you just if you just the only reason that people have given you a blanket assurance is you meant to do more than that.

It depends on what the activities are. But the important thing is that in certain activities, you treat that corporation as a separate thing.

You know, it might have its own property, it's not yours and all kinds of other stuff.

Right? But a lot of it is very ritualistic. Right.

And again, you know, it's just like, uh, and that's what I'm going to point out to you, like, how far does that go?

Right. Okay. So we formed a corporation because my, my buddy did because this is what we did.

It's no longer in existence. But, um.

Uh, corporations can often often compensate their workers.

A lot of times their senior management with what's called share based compensation.

That is, instead of giving a worker money, they might give them shares of stock in the company,

the notion being that that aligns their incentives better with the shareholders or.

The company might give an executive a stock option, and a stock option is the right to buy stock at a certain price over a certain period of time.

So I don't know, somebody to look up, uh, what's traded on.

Somebody look up at Nvidia. What's the Nvidia trading for right now. Anybody.

Would you like to. 91.

It's what? 191. $191. Okay, so $191 per share.

And video. If I can spell it. Is that right?

Probably doesn't have a capital. Okay. So Nvidia might do something like this.

Follows from my compensation. Suppose I'm the CEO or something.

They might they might say oh our stock is currently selling for $191 a share.

I'm going to give you the right to buy at 191.

This is true. Any time within the next ten years. Whoa.

What happens there? Well, if something happens and Nvidia's stock goes down, I just don't exercise my option.

I just don't buy it. But if it goes up, I buy it at 191.

So if it doubles. I go buy a share for 181.

It's worth twice that. That's a stock option. Okay, so companies give Grant these things that are executives all the time.

But the accounting for them was really bad. We'll get into how that.

But basically we've. Yeah yeah. No but basically they weren't recognized for accounting purposes.

And that rule changed after Enron. So. Okay.

So we're going to see that when we start doing the accounting we're going to first of all we're going to have three steps.

And here's a list you should make. And you'll have plenty of opportunity to make it.

The first one is recognition. You know are we going to formally record this in a in a record?

Okay I should write these down. Steps in the accounting process.

The wife recognition. That that means is it something that I'm going to formally fold into the accounts?

If the answer is no, I'm not going to recognize that we're done.

That means it's outside the system, outside the accounting system.

All right. That if we do decide to recognize something.

So I should say if yes. Then we have two other decisions to make.

Uh, classification. Which is where do we put it?

And valuation. Because in accounting we're only going to do with numbers.

How much. So this is I was talking to you and talk to you about compensation valuation incorporated.

There's a name for it. It produced estimates.

We produced estimates of the value of these days.

What for. So for people to use in their accounting. Right.

So they have to make an accounting actually they had to come up with a number and we knew that this was going to happen.

So some finance colleagues and I formed a company to supply those values, you know, work okay for a while.

The point is though. So our clients were huge corporations.

Okay. Now anything goes wrong with the financial reporting of, you know, I had of somebody that used to be your client, for example.

But that wasn't meeting more. But the company's gone now, so I guess I could say here they use it.

So United Technologies was a client.

Anything went wrong with the financial reporting which caused a bunch of lawsuits to go on, which just, you know, would just be wiped out immediately.

You know, the elephants are out there stomping around and we're just being crushed.

So that's why we formed a corporation. It's a good idea, right? But the corporation does have this problem that we can pay ourselves salaries.

Yeah, but if a corporation pays a salary to somebody.

Let's think about that for a second. Well, I have to declare it is income.

But here's the here's the kicker. The corporation gets deducted from their taxes as an expense of doing business.

All right. You have to. I'm not going to go into all these.

This is more text that I intended to get into, but I just want to give you some idea of all the different things that are at stake.

Okay, so if the corporation is spending money,

it's giving money to somebody and it's for it's part of their doing business, part of making a profit that's deductible.

You only pay taxes on your profits.

But if they're returning money to the shareholders and paying shareholders return, that's not a cost of doing business okay.

So that's not deductible. So what that means then is when we formed this corporation.

Well, it was okay when we were small. And we say pretty small.

It was okay that we all the money we got with salaries and bonuses that we took out of it and yeah,

we just we decided we just paid ourselves whatever. We never unfortunately, we didn't ever not make that much money.

So you have this problem.

But if we would ever kept going where the salaries would have been, that we would pay ourselves would have been unreasonable.

But then the government could write, object and say, hey you, you're not treating this as a corporation.

You're not treating this as a separate entity. You're buying labor for services from yourself, or you're paying way too much.

There's an is, you know, it's not an arm's length transaction, we call it.

And they might say that's evidence that used to pierce the corporate veil, okay.

That you're paying yourself, uh, is that what you really should be, a return on your investment?

You're paying yourself as if you. As if you real work got allowed.

Okay, that how it was. So. So I just want to give you a sense that you get the most liability protection, but the tax angle is you paid for it.

So that's what this is what people mean when they say the corporations.

There's double taxation. Okay.

That's what they mean when they say that. That means the company pays tax on it.

And then the shareholders create tax when they get money.

So so a dollar in over here from the customers is taxed twice.

Right. And yeah you're right of action.

This has been the source of all kinds of disagreements and Partizan disagreements for a long time.

But you should think.

I think this way, whenever I hear somebody say, oh, the corporation is going to pay that tax, the corporation is in nothing.

It's a ritual. It's it's a it's a figment of our imagination.

The only person whose sort of people whose consumption is actually affected are the owners and maybe the workers,

because if the company might overpay their workers and have them have a better life.

But look, corporations don't pay taxes in subsidy, and the form of it is they do.

But really the question is, if you own one of these companies, how much would you pay anyway?

So so that's a little of the debate behind corporate taxes.

Yeah, I saw that Ken Griffin paid himself $4 billion.

But one of the last few years he runs Citadel.

Yeah. And Ken Griffin of Citadel for billions. Yeah. And they've netted like about 90 that year in return.

Five to shareholders. Yeah. So why didn't the government go and so so Citadel first of all, is that a public company?

Um, I'm not sure. It's not okay. It's not.

If it's not, then they don't. Then if it's not a public, it's not a corporation.

It could have another form, uh, another organizational form,

which I'm going to talk about in a second and you'll see in these other forums, but this kind of thing to talk about.

So, so this guy has, let's say, a limited liability company or something like that.

And he pays himself $4 billion. Okay.

Uh, then probably what's happening happening there is it's what's called a disregarded entity.

So let's suppose so. It raises the point that is there anything between just doing business as a person and a full blown corporation?

Well, yeah, you can mix and match all these things, right.

The amount of liability protection for from you versus the taxes.

So if you're willing to take a little less liability protection than a full blown corporation,

then what you form, you don't you don't want to form a corporation.

You want to form maybe something like a limited liability company, LLC.

But I can't remember if it's limited liability company.

LLC. You know, there's also a lot of, uh, service providers, like doctors and stuff like that.

Uh, they'll be LLCs or maybe even professional corporation, some sort of whatever.

So what what those kinds of things do is they kind of play an intermediate game, right?

They give you some liability protection. Not as good, but the tax consequences.

Okay. So money comes in here and I'm the owner of the LLC.

Rick. Money goes to here.

Money flows like that. Well, with an LLC, the government doesn't look at that as a separate entity for tax purposes.

Right. So so it looks at it as a separate entity for legal litigation purposes, but not for tax purposes.

What does that mean? That means Rick is the only person that pays taxes.

Everything flows through that entity. Yeah.

So why doesn't every company just form an LLC and they're all getting taxed?

Well, the LLC structure, I mean, there's there are obviously some advantages to corporate structure.

One of them is if you're big enough and you want to sell shares and stuff, the limited liability company is harder to do that.

So so for example, you bought, uh, you have let's suppose Tesla said that it was a limited liability company.

So you're sitting out there and you own some shares of Tesla.

Well, in that case when Tesla had taxable income, you would have to pay the taxes whether you had the cash or not.

For Tesla, for for the profits. Yeah.

For your share of the profits of Tesla. Okay, so that makes capital work is kind of hard to work, right?

Because usually in an LLC, part of the agreement that, Richard,

is that you're always going to distribute at least enough to the owners to pay the taxes on what to do.

So somebody doesn't have to go bankrupt because, yeah, you know, I got, uh, I own part of this LLC.

They earned the profit, but I don't have personally, I don't have any cash.

Okay. You get into that problem. See that? Right.

So. So the corporation is keeping everything separate.

That the only thing the taxpayer pays taxes are the dividends they get.

Now, if they own shares and the shares go up and they get a gain on that, they'll pay tax on that.

But they don't pay tax as the company earns money.

Burns a problem with the LLC. Okay, so that's how you know.

That's why whenever you start a company, you talk to some business lawyers or some lawyers to get some advice on this.

All right. Now, if you go all the way down to a partnership or a sole proprietorship, you know that's an entity that.

But there was no the taxes are paid by the person, and it's kind of just for the name only.

It's doing business as something else, but really it's just a person.

Okay. So there's all kinds of gradations of this is my point.

All right. So the limited liability company that I've a forum 217 karat.

Okay. Well that's the um. That's the birth certificate.

But you have to go all the way up with this in order to get such a thing.

You have to have an operating agreement. You have to say, how are we going to run this thing?

I love this one. Operating agreement.

This is an agreement between the company. No, it's not a thing.

This is between the company and me. And by the way, I'm the only person in this company.

And I'm the only person that. Owns this company.

So. So at this point, you know, I mean, we're really into rituals here, right?

Because the company that I've brought into existence, and I'm the only person involved now is making agreement with me.

I'm making agreement. I'm not making an agreement with myself.

I'm making an agreement with this fictitious thing that I just brought in.

What determines what agreements it can enter? Oh, me? Because I'm the owner.

But I have different roles. What are these roles?

He's just imagined, right? So once we form this company, then you can say, oh,

my role as the owner of 2017 Care Associates is what they my role is really I told the person that's a different thing.

Well, how do I know when you're acting when we're okay? This is litigation time.

And if I get in a very bad mood towards the end of the semester,

will be because I agree to be an expert witness and with somebody who's got a disagreement with the company up exactly on these lines,

you know, they formed a corporation which is a holding company that proceeded to disregard it.

And they had given some shares to this person's mother and she. Anyway, it's all about power.

What's the form of it versus how are they acted? And once you establish a company, you know you got to treat it right.

That company may or may not be owned just by its not own, just by you.

We're treating it right.

If it's owned just by you is kind of, you know, forged when I go through, like I say, separate bank accounts and stuff like that.

But if it's, uh, uh, but if it's owned by other people, then it gets hairy.

Okay. Uh, yeah.

Because, you know, I don't I don't like to get involved in these arguments and everything,

but I always end up doing it because every time I do it, I learn something seems like.

So then I go through, you know, I've been very nervous and stressed out and everything.

And then my wife wants to kill me for this because she says, you know what I should get?

It's like childbirth, I guess. It's very painful. But then people forget.

Although my wife didn't forget when she had my son, she said, that's it.

No more, no more. No more children.

Okay, so I love this. Look at this. So it said. What does it have to say?

All right, so this is an agreement between me and my company and the sole member to XYZ to memorialize it,

blah, blah, blah, set forth in this operating agreement.

And you know that all this is just to provide evidence that this thing is a separate thing, right?

Organization. It's been organized as a limited liability company. Name of the company.

Is this the purpose? I this is usual. The purpose of the company is to engage in any lawful act or activity.

The companies like this can do and I can do I can, certainly I can.

I can start selling hot dogs out of a car. Not instead of giving legal services.

Okay, fine. No problem. Registered agent, so member.

Blah blah blah. Management powers. Business affairs shall be managed by me for the sole member.

Okay. This is what I'd like to just show you. Like I run down to the signature page.

There's all sorts of stuff here. Signature, please. Look at that.

Look at that signature page. There's only one signature, but it's me with two different roles as the managing member.

And that's the top signature. That's me is under the company. Okay.

Okay, now you're talking to the person. I agree. But I, you know, are you getting the depth of the rituals here and are you getting why?

A lot of people could look at this and say, oh, this is just crazy.

But, you know, we're bringing into existence something that exists only in our minds.

And if we just wake up, you know, how else are we going to do that besides sort of ritualistic?

Okay. Fun, fun, fun and business from the ground up again.

All right. So this just goes through some of the different kinds of of entities and what's going on here.

Now this is what I propose we do is to kind of warm up to the sort of real accounting and get a, um, an overview.

So I propose that we form a company that we form an LLC.

We're not really going to do this because it cost me 250 bucks. Okay.

But we do form an LLC. And, uh, I'm going to be the managing member.

So I'm going to make the decisions and all that, but everybody's going to buy it.

And let's suppose usually I have more than 50 people in the class.

So I raise a thousand bucks for each of us. But some of you are going to have to kick in more than that.

If I if I took the divisor, I could send 40 people in the class I was in $50,000.

Okay, let's forget that, right? It's going to put in, uh, some money, let's call it 1500 bucks.

Okay. So each going to we're going to put 1500 bucks in the company.

Well, what I have to do, first of all I have to incorporate let's let's make it out of Dover.

So I have to get a birth certificate for the thing I propose we call it.

165 Whitney Associates, 2026.

Because I do this every year. I say, okay, fine.

165 Whitney Associates, 2026. That's our day. Um, and, uh, here we go.

First thing I'm going to do is go get it a bank account. What is that?

Another set of rituals. I go to the bank. I said it's a business account.

Oh, show me your, uh. Show me your legitimate business.

Um, here's my certificate of formation. You know, they might want to know what the operating agreement is.

This case. The operating agreement has weird, funky stuff. Let's go. Okay, here you go.

All these business documents, they go. All right. It's a separate entity.

Here's your bank account. We put the 50,000 bucks in the bank.

Okay. Now, what I propose we do with this.

Is your battery is running low.

Well, my my battery is definitely running low, I tell you. Oh, I have a question for you.

An aside. So this is not I'm not intending any trouble.

This is my information. So most people didn't come to zoom class.

Okay. Oh, is that because you don't like zoom class?

It was just easier. Or. Now I'll tell you why, I don't know.

Because I'm trying to figure out what kinds of things really need to be done in person and what kinds of things.

Okay. Because like I said this, that I think that we need to be analyzing this all the time, especially now with the technology that we have.

So I'm very I'm keenly interested in that as we do class today.

What I'm thinking is this has been first in class because it's a lot of conversation.

It's a lot of, uh, maybe last time, uh, we were just doing some present value calculations and stuff, right?

Um, you know, do you really need to watch? Really? Anything.

But if I, you know, how many people just hate zoom? Okay, a couple people.

And and so everybody else is just it's sort of just easier to watch something.

I'm not going to get it. And I, you know, it's not going to be that different consuming it off zoom that it is consuming it off the video.

That is that that's what I would think. Any contradiction to that.

Oh that's what's my thought process. All right. This is interesting.

Right. So we really have to understand. What's different about it in person?

Zoom. Even if you have a really good person on zoom calling on people.

What I found was for the people that did come, it was easier for me because I knew your names, that I could call on you.

And we had actually more of a dialog in zoom than we did more talk discussion on zoom than we do in class.

All right. Anyway. Okay, good. All right.

Uh, so we're going to form this this this this company.

Now, what we're going to do is the company. What we're going to do is we're going to buy a US government bonds.

We got to see what kind we want. And I might it'll be it'll be pretty much real, but not necessarily exactly because.

Because I'm going to make up. So what I propose we do is buy a coupon bond.

Right. Some of pays coupon treasury bonds.

And then we're not going to do anything else. Right.

We're just going to buy this bond. And sit back and wait to get the payments.

Okay. And then at the very end, we'll divide up the cash that's left.

Bit of a warning. Uh, this is a little bit inconsistent with our framework so far, because nobody should just put cash in a jar and not invest it.

But that's what I want to do. Okay, so. So if you look at if you calculate expected returns and so forth,

it's going to be walking because I'm not taking the periodic the coupon payments and reinvesting it and having them grow.

We got enough to worry about okay. So we're going to forget that.

All right. So, uh, okay, so we're going to take this and from this company, I'm going to take the money in, and then I'm going to do two things.

I'm going to buy a bomb. Uh, the company's going to buy a bomb.

Right. And then, uh, we'll just sit back and wait for it collected and divvy up the money at.

Makes sense.

So what this is going to do for us is it'll take us through the process of starting from the beginning to the end of a company all the way through,

and cash is going to come in over time, right? Because they're going to be coupon payments.

And and, you know, it's going to give us a vehicle to, to understand, to go through things the the way accounting works once.

Okay. And then what it it's going to it's believe it or not,

it's actually gonna be a simpler setting that it's a setting that is that I picked especially to work with the present value stuff that we can do.

Okay. All right. There we go.

Give me your money. I assume I've got I assume that I got the money on behalf of the company and put it on the day of question number one.

Do you want me? To do any accounting.

Or can I just show up? Years and years later.

And. Going to do any accounting.

Uh, yeah. Who wants me to do some accounting?

All right. What are you going to do, Danny?

Um, I mean, definitely, like, um, I mean, take note or guys for accounting, like, take note of all your potential expenses and lay out a.

But we don't have any. Okay. Fair. Um, but now I just got $50,000 from you guys.

Do you want me to write anything down? The question I'm asking is, do you only have an accounting system that recognizes something?

For sure. Okay. What? Yeah. The investment coming in now.

Okay. The investor coming in. Okay. I think more concrete than that.

How about I keep a record of the cash? Okay.

Okay. So I'm going to keep a record of the cash.

Now, we should all understand. You know, that's pretty clear, right?

That you want to make sure you.

You want to have the ability to come and look at any point in time, probably to see if the company really has the cash or if I've stolen it.

All right. So you want to have some records that you can inspect.

Right. So one of the, one of the things you might want is, uh, uh, a record of the cash.

Okay. And so I go look in the bank and I say, yep, it's 50,000, right?

Okay. There's your cash. Right. The bank statement.

Is there anything else you want me to write down? No.

Yeah, I guess we did with the cash flow. Well, we're going to write that down for sure.

But I mean, even just at this stage before I do anything with it, they who you got it.

How much you got from each person. Who did I get it from? Yeah.

Because at the end we got to divide up things proportionately, right?

Maybe everybody gave the same amount and maybe they didn't. Right. Okay.

So I'm going to have, uh. Where did it come from?

Where did it come from?

Okay. Uh, Rick gave me, uh, 5000.

Uh, Locklin gave me 2000.

That, uh, down here add up my list.

It comes to $45,000.

Okay. So two lists, right?

One keeps track of the cash. The other one keeps track of the investors.

Right? Yeah. Adama. The castle's 50.

The list of investors totals 45. Yeah.

Debtors. No, no. There's no debt. Yeah.

I mean, do I think that. No. No, no.

Nothing's happened. Nothing's happened yet.

I guess there's something wrong. Something's wrong. It's.

Come on. Rick. That can't be right. Right.

I don't like this. You just told me two things are inconsistent.

Right. Through consistent. That's why we have an accounting identity that says, uh, not allowed.

Not allowed. And what is that identity?

Well.

