[Auto-generated transcript. Edits may have been applied for clarity.]
The days of the stock market in 1929, in particular.

And so the way everybody was getting information was that this ticker tape, if you ever see anything,

you ever see a movie or anything with a ticker tape in it, it's a little machine that punches holes and it streams out a table.

And when a when a trade would be made on the New York Stock Exchange, then somebody would enter something in this ticker tape.

And everybody, no matter where you were, and rich people and people were trading so much in the market.

They had brokerage offices on cruise liners in the day.

You know, it be like the Titanic type of thing.

And so, so that so that the people who are doing, uh, you know, have a week long trip from New York to London could see that information.

Uh, so, um. So Standard and Poor's is one of the companies that sort of sprouted up early on to provide data on bonds.

A lot of good. But what sort of corporate and government bonds and stuff like that.

So they're what's called a rating agency, you know, um, and, and uh, they we talked a little bit about T-bills last time.

So government bills, government securities would be rated like, you know, very highly or a company that um,

probably right now if you if you look at the rating of something like Apple Computer,

if you looked at if it issues bonds or issues debt to the public, it would be rated by Standard Poor's,

probably very, very high, probably almost as much as it's safe as a government.

Right. That's what they did. So what this is, is they, they they maintain this an ongoing basis.

They pick 500 stocks on the US on the US stock market.

That are they picked them to try to be representative of the economy.

Right. So, you know, way back in the day when the US automakers and US steel was what was really driving value.

Oh, there were no computer companies back in those days. The S&P 500 would consist of steel companies and auto moving and stuff like that.

Now, if you look at it, there's a lot more tech stuff. And so they changed the composition.

But the idea of it is it's representative of what's going on in the US economy.

Okay. And actually my own personal investing. All right I have cash and I have S&P 500 index because I'm sort of invested in the country generally.

But but without taking risks in any particular stock. We'll talk about later on in the class about why you do stuff like that.

Okay. Okay. So so this is the performance from 19.

What is it 2428.

So that's actually before the crash. Uh, I don't think I can point to anything here because I couldn't.

Look, I have to make a point of this getting no know book to this.

Oh, look, I can. Okay. Look. So. So this is where I'm reading about right now.

1929. Look at that. Jesus Christ, that's a terrible.

If you if you blew that up, where, you know, this is all distorted by the fact that now we're in the S&P 500 index is more than 6000.

Now it's like more than that. I think it's almost it's seven or almost eight or something crazy.

But, um, if you think you know, this would be your year to year returns or the way your wealth would grow back.

And just like that picture I showed you last night, right? This is not counting dividends.

Now, here's my question for you. Uh, what kind of math do we need?

For this kind of process.

You might know. What's the first thing you notice about it?

Just start noticing things. Yeah. The trend is generally positive.

Okay. Trend is generally positive. That's one thing. And we could develop some intuition for that.

Well let's see if people like well this is what happened in 1929.

That what was crazy about that is how long it took that fall to occur.

You just things just kept falling and follow and follow.

It was like so crazy, you know, because when you buy a stock, you got to expect that you're going to get some positive return from doing it right.

Otherwise you could just spend the money on something else. Right.

So we can we can say why there's pressure, that why the markets would work in such a way that that this kind of an index would trend upward,

would tend to go up because people will buy stocks if they don't expect to get a return, make sense?

Or they will buy them at prices that they don't expect to get a return.

All right. So so generally it trends upward. What else about it?

Yeah, it's like almost exponential. Well, it kind of looks like it's.

Well, you put it in. Put it in. Suppose you're explaining it to a ninth grader.

I guess it's getting bigger and bigger in my kid.

It's accelerating. Maybe growth. It's curved. Yeah.

It's curved. Right. It's not a straight line.

Does that. Okay. It doesn't just go straight up.

So I think I have some slides for that. You're not going to get the sound effect.

So that's you know the time period the value the index. So if you go through the slides on this or the PowerPoint slides I this.

No, I'm really pointing out the steps that you should. Any time somebody puts a graph before you what is it.

What's the x. What are the axes. Right. It's thing number one.

Okay. So years. And then the value of this index.

Okay. It's adjusted for inflation, blah blah blah. So over this period of time, it started off at 320 and it ended up at 58, 81.

And I started to update it through December 25th. But I kind of gave up, like when I clicked on Macro Trends to try to do it.

It put me someplace I didn't like to be with. Okay.

So it's got that kind of shape right now.

There's, uh, on the resources page. I haven't updated this thing for a long time, but there's a lot of kind of, um,

a few books and stuff that I've read that I find very helpful in various things.

There's a book called How Not to Be Wrong by s l l something or other, the references in the reference,

because there's other resources page of it that you can get it by clicking on the home page of the course.

And one of the ways not to be wrong is not to make the mistake that I'm about to make.

Okay. That is, assume this is our first guess.

It's like we just knew it trended upward. If that's all you knew, what would you what would you tend to do?

You would tend to draw a line like that. If if all you knew was it goes up.

Well, that's not a very good. Oh, you can hear that.

Oh, I can hear you, Sam.

Uh, source. Let's try that again.

There we go. Okay. Not good. You need something that looks like that.

Okay, now, uh, you guys probably went to really good schools.

I went to a small country school. Oklahoma. You know, where the football coach was?

My was my senior English teacher. And I remember one day this was he was explaining what types of words are.

And so his example was a noun is a word like table or chair or a tree.

I said, that's not a definition. This may be very popular in a small country school, Oklahoma, but I can't remember what.

I got into this probably sometime around the eighth or ninth grade. You know, you might have done it seventh or something.

You know, you start doing a little algebra, right?

And, uh, and a lot of the things you start, start off at first is kind of straight lines.

And most people you can you remember this. This makes any sense.

And then the growth and you can do stuff and play with it you know.

And then to knock you off the straight line thing.

What kind of thing do they introduce? Remember way back in the day?

Math people. A parabola. Excuse me.

A parabola is right. They start doing things like. What's x squared?

Stuff like that. Right. Instead of just being a straight line which goes as a x plus y equals x plus speed is oh what have y equals x squared.

Right. And it produced a thing looking something like that.

That's what you said exponential because you got the squared. It's got to multiply things right.

And, uh. Do you remember? The first time you encountered it.

How much trouble you had with the parabola as opposed to a straight line.

You know, I don't know. I, uh. I, uh.

If you want to brush up on your math skills, here's the thing I use all the time, and,

uh, I use it to also to see, like, how are they teaching kids this kind of material?

It's called brilliant. Dawg.

And it's got some interactive. Math stuff.

Math, actually. Computer science stuff. As well.

And some physics stuff. And some whatever.

Okay, so so so it's been interesting for me that I go back and I look at how do they take kids from, you know, separate stuff.

And that's a that's a tough step. You're right.

Why? Because the growth. It's hard to say.

It's hard to describe the growth here. Right on to something that's linear.

You just say it's growing at a flat rate per year, right?

Or per period. And you don't have to know where you are.

Right? Yes. No. Okay. That's it. The amount of growth is the same every every time.

And here. That's this is not happening, right? That is growing faster as it goes through time.

And so took a long time. People figured out how to model this kind of stuff.

Probably. Well, I think I think the Mesopotamians sort of knew how to do it.

Uh, even though I don't know that they knew about multiplication.

Um, is to to think of this as the growth.

Maybe it costs a percentage, but it's a percentage of where you start.

So once you grow to a certain point, the growth is applied to not the original place you originally started,

but the place that you started the period with. Okay.

That's that's kind of a trick. All right.

But I was trying to dredge up some of the.

If you could find any of the emotions from your junior high or whatever you first encountered.

Parabolas and all this square roots and zero.

And we're not going to stop there. Did you go to Cubic Equations and you're going to.

It just got a lot harder. I'm telling you all this to say.

Don't. Underestimate.

The weirdness of the math.

That's good that we're going to do good with compounding, discounting. It's going to be something that you could do the calculation.

So we're going to do a bunch of stuff in Excel so you can do it.

But one of the things we're going to do and the reason we're going to do it in Excel is it

provides you very quick way to kind of follow things along bit by bit and see what's happening.

It's an is right in the formula. You kind of experience what's happening with it.

Okay. So that's what we want to do.

So this is sort of a multiplicative growth process.

All right. It's a curve. Hey.

Oh, well, wait a minute. That's too hot. No, that's not the podium.

Here we go. Let's try this. I won't be this corny every time.

It's not too early anyway. Okay, now here's another plot.

Uh, from Ibbotson Associates.

Come on in. Good morning. Uh, and look, these lines are straight.

Right. So it says S&P five, small company stocks.

Large company stocks. So that green line that's like S&P 500.

Kind of like five straight. Lines.

Yeah the scale is different because the scale is different right.

Because the axes are not the same. But look at that vertical axis.

Axis. Right. You don't go it doesn't go 1234.

It goes 110, 100, 1000. That's what I meant.

You got to be careful when you're looking at a graph. Right. And you know this kind of an exponential or large scale scales Y is the way.

Uh, people, especially when they had to calculate everything by hand.

You know, the way that they would do calculations that are converted into this cinch,

this thing that made you do like linear like calculations within unconverted on linear lines that very clever, don't have to do that anymore.

You know, my phone can do it, but I mean, my watch can do it, right.

My watch can connect with things. Okay.

So we have we got year. But on the y axis we have uh multiple.

It goes up multiplicative one times ten. And every time.

Oh. I'm sorry. Okay, so that's why sometimes you can look at some, you know, you can some grass is all.

This is straight. You got to really be careful. That's him.

Being sensitive to the ax is going to be important to you for a lot of reasons.

One is we pick up a set of financial statements. What's the time period between the beginning and the end of the period?

Is it a quarter? Is it a year? Is it a month? Is it nine months?

Is it three days? Because people make up financial statements all the time with all kinds and all kinds of different.

You know, we have a regular process which puts things out every quarter.

But again, every year this is so sort of special. Things get wrapped up yearly.

But you can make up financial statements any time you want. Okay.

All right. So anyway but we're not in financial statements yet.

So right now we want to talk about cash flows time and uncertainty.

And who's a philosophy major. Oh, you got a philosophy.

So do you. Uh, I don't know what people do in philosophy now, but do they talks about people's values and philosophy sometime.

Sometime? And what are they talking about? I mean, not not they don't talk about value in regards to, uh, the financials themselves.

Yeah. It's not at all about that. Right. It would be like, well, you know, what kind of what do I value personally now?

I like my life to be quite in a supportive environment and uh, uh, or I value kindness, be kind and be like,

we're not talking and like, or the opposite of your philosophy, people are 100% the opposite, right?

So when you get into this world, you're it's not that these other things are.

They can be way more important than money, but we're only talking about the mind.

Okay. So we're only talking about financial value. So.

You know, uh, it is sort of strengths and weaknesses of that, you know, like, let's talk about the value of this building.

Yeah. Well, what are they going to do? What is she going to do with it? It just it the cash value.

Well, you know, the real value. It provides a nice environment for our education and all that stuff.

It gives me a nice place to work. You know, what's our tuition revenue going to be and what would it have been without?

You know, this is the kind of this is the kind of value we're going to talk about.

So that's obviously the clearest we've we're talking about just sort of a for profit company.

The only thing you're in business to do is take people's money and turn it into ultimately

more money for them and whatever they personally value or however they want to conserve,

that's their business. Okay. So we're clear about that.

So. So, you know, sometimes I'm pretty good. And every once in a while I'll say financial value.

But, you know, that's the only kind of value I'm talking about right now.

The financial value of something. Well, that's a money concept, right?

So it's not surprising that the financial value of GM stock.

We say that in monetary terms. Right.

And so what? What would we think about. Well like a Bitcoin value.

This is this is kind of getting more confusing now than it used to be because people

about trade in many more different kinds of kinds of currencies in these things.

But we put up that Bitcoin value like $90,000 or something.

Right. So when Bitcoin 90,000 started what does that mean?

That means if you had 90,000 plus dollars you could go buy yourself one Bitcoin.

Or if you had one bitcoin you could convert that into 90,000 something dollars right.

But we didn't talk about what are you going to do with it. Right. We just talk about the money part of it.

Money is a weird thing. Well willing to talk about that.

So actually if you go through these those tutorials and it gets you the money because.

Okay. So we're going to talk about cash flows.

There are three properties of cash flow strains. When we look at a debt we pay attention to what is how much it is.

Good that how much money you got. Second thing is when.

And what we're going to start off working on is only worried about that.

And the next thing is if. Right.

Uncertainty. What if. It's, you know, you might get it something or you might not.

Nevada adds a completely different kind of kind of complexity that we're going to put off for a while.

Okay. So to actually build in uncertainty formally in our heads.

Okay. So we're going to talk about. I'm going to talk about cash flow streams amount and time.

All right. Ready. Here we go. There's only one idea before we work the crap out of it.

That's compound interest. Okay.

And it's going to give us the kind of chart that the S&P 500 would look like.

That kind of growth is a compounding kind of growth.

There's a zillion terms here. We're going to want to get we're going to want to build a vocabulary of these terms because everybody uses them.

And uh, you know, some of them like the difference between present value and future value.

Those are conceptual. They're trying to specify, if I talk about value, at what point in time am I talking my talk right now?

Am I talking about what will something be worth a year from now? A period of three years?

Whatever. Right. I just sort of specify that a bunch of other kind of, um, that language will pick up is really,

um, just shortcuts for defining different cash flow problems is more a matter of convention.

So for example, if you take a lease payment.

If you rent an apartment for a year. That's the thing we're going to call an annuity.

It's a series of equal payments, right?

Yeah, that that was really important when we didn't have so much computational power.

And people did special cases all the time.

And then and then there they would kind of make their deals correspond to the special cases that you could calculate.

Okay. What idea? Compound interest.

We're also going to work it forwards and backwards. Well all right so let's let's see how we go.

That could be inflows. Outflows. Here's two cash flow streams.

I give you $83.96 today. All right.

Another one is I'm going to give you $100 three periods from now.

Suddenly what. What period is that? Okay. All right.

It'll be very helpful for you to start thinking in terms of this kind of a diagram.

This is like a time diagram. When is stuff happening?

And, uh, you know, we're not going to deal in this class with sort of continuous time and calculus stuff.

Accountants are pretty simple. You know, it's just things happen at a point in time basically,

or we have points in time or we can talk about stuff happens in the middle of it, but we don't get particular about say, well,

okay, so that's that, that causes actually sometimes if I have somebody in class that knows too much finance,

it can cause a little problem because we have to keep track very carefully.

When did that inflow occur and when did that outflow occur. And they might just think about every outflows are occurring continuously anyway.

Forget that. So here's here's the first one right.

That um notice I drew three periods because my alternatives the longest was three periods.

So we get $83.96 today. Or did you get $100 three periods from now.

Now which one would you prefer? I go back.

You're back. Now, I got to say, there are some rules here that.

That what you have to do is take the money and within 30 minutes, buy yourself as much of your favorite thing to eat.

Or drink as you can and consume it right there.

Okay. I want to get I want to get a round of.

What are you going to do with a buddy? Right. Yeah, right. So, you know, if I like Hershey's with almonds, I take my $80.96.

Today. I got to run over and spend it all on her.

She was always. And you liked it? Or if I could wait, I could.

If I wait, I could buy more horses. I had to do that.

So which one would you prefer? Which one would you like?

I think it depends on how long the period is. Well.

Uh. Why? I mean, that depends how much I discount the money.

But I like money now, so, um, I just go with. You okay?

So. Yeah, I can see what you say. So, you know, so if you're talking about three periods big a nanosecond.

Yeah, it's it's kind of not a lot can happen. Right.

So this is very important. Very good. Nobody's ever said that to me was 100% right.

Because, uh, what I'm thinking is kind of years, right.

Uh, but that but that is important for that, for that reason.

Although I would say it's important because of a presumed setting you're putting in order for that to be important,

you're putting a lot of stuff in her head. Right? I'm trying to try not to put all that on.

I'm trying to put those things in one at a time. Okay, so.

But here let's just talk about a year. So you're like one year. They have three years.

So I'm taking that I'm taking the money out. Anybody for being.

Anybody want to wait? You want to wait? Yeah. What you do?

You know I need somebody to wait. I got to plan it out, you know? You got a planet?

Yeah. You got. Where you gonna get these verses? Oh, you know what going to do?

You know how to do this. And I'm not really hungry right now. If I have to eat in 30 minutes, I want to learn how.

Okay. Who's right? I mean, if I wanted to talk about the value of these two cash flow streams A or B.

Who's right? Yes. Um.

It depends on the discount rate. So if you just look at the absolute value of 100, it's definitely better than.

Yeah, but it's in a different point in time. Yeah. So it's right.

No. Go ahead, go ahead. I mean, we're not sure about the present value of 100.

No, no, you're talking about you're using stuff we haven't, even though we're going to get there.

But you're ahead. You're too far ahead. I do think that getting more money earlier on means more value.

So what would you get in? Less money? So here you've got a trade off between the two.

You can invest the money. No you can't. You have to give it.

Um. Okay, I'll go ahead.

So who's right? It's out there.

No, you got to just say it. Yeah. Yeah. I mean, nobody's right.

They're both right. They're both right.

You're not in this setting value.

If I said value, that's personal. So do you.

$83. $83.96. Today is worth more than 100 recruits, right?

How do I why do I say that? Because you pick that, right.

And I'm trying to measure your preferences. Right.

So I say, okay, whatever I put down, you know, if I'm going to measure the value, I'd say, all right, uh.

I'm going to have some measurement process, you know, call it, um, I don't know,

some function of a and some function of cash flow stream B, and that means this is a complete definition of what it is.

Right. So so in your mind picture you know.

To do it this way I should have like uh, uh, 8396.

000. And be a function of this cash flow stream.

001 variance. Oh, uh, 100.

Pretend he's my daughter's an artist, and she could actually make this look good.

But, you know, it must have come from her mother, because I assume so.

So if I were to sort of measure the value, I should.

I should call it the function. I should say the value.

Value. So to capture your preferences, then I have to have v of a uh greater than or equal to v of V.

But to capture yours I'd have to say no no no.

V of I should say here that V of V has got to be greater than V of A, and there's no function that can do that.

So that I have to say, well I got a uh. What's your first name, sir?

Mr. Mason. Mason. Oh, yes. I'm sorry.

Mason. Mason's valuation would be different from Gabriel.

Gage. Gabriel. Gabriel. Gabriel.

Right. I'm sorry. Jay. There's just nothing we could do about that.

Right. So.

Well, okay. Class is over. There's nothing we can do.

But. We got to figure out a way.

In order to have meetings, sensible conversations about financial value.

We got to figure out a way around this, right? Because I don't want to have a conversation each time.

It's basically a philosophy class about why do you take this and what's in this area, but what should your value?

You know, you could. Yeah. We can't do that.

Right. So how are we going to do this? How are we going to do this?

How about this? Suppose we every every.

Both of these things are defined by two characteristics.

Right. It's. Amounts and timing.

Suppose we had some way to physically go and construct one sequence out of the other one.

Okay. Then I got to make them comparable somehow.

Right. And if I, if I don't do something to the setting, they're not comparable.

I. So okay. Now tell me what to do.

Now tell me what to do. I'm going to have a richer setting.

Right? I'm going to say. Oh, you're.

You're not confined just to eat it. What if you have another opportunity?

You can eat it. You can spend it on eating now. Or you could put it in a machine that can convert current dollars to future dollars.

How about that? Did you see what an abstraction that is, by the way?

Right. Okay, so let's assume that there is such a machine.

And how does it work? Well, I'm going to say it's a compound growth process.

You know, you know, the reason people really started thinking about these are what what risk way you would have to think about it.

Even if you're you can't even write anything if you're an if you are.

Um, if you've invented agriculture and domesticated some animals in particular.

Okay. Your herd might grow, uh, an expert at a compounding kind of rate.

Right? If it if every two cows has a calf and you got 100 cows, then you grow it, and then you get 50 more.

But if you had a thousand calve cows, you get 500 more.

Okay. So that kind of this kind of growth process people would experience in what they saw,

the things that they would see just by counting and what's happening in these different circumstances.

Okay. All right. So borrowing and lending.

So here we go. Uh, my.

I don't know what I want. I want you confused with different colors.

If it's chalk, then I don't actually like to second. Okay, so let's suppose you got here 80.

Oh, look at that. Well, I guess it's Yale.

There's not even a trash can. Hello?

Who? Um. Who's who's in her first year? Anybody?

Few people in their first year. Okay. Um, how about seniors?

Got any seniors? The seniors. That would ask the question.

What have you learned about Yale in the four years you're here?

Way better than Harvard. Well, of course that didn't.

You didn't know that. That's why I came here. But at Yale, I don't follow this.

But you take care of yourself. But we're not so good at making sure that it's the right.

That the ink that dry erase markers actually write.

So I usually carry my own. So when we built this building, this is like ten years old now.

And I had an office on Hillhouse Avenue and I saw this visitor.

And I was actually the first faculty member to move my stuff into this building.

Right. And so I remember over Christmas, I had a little box, and I had this old fan that had a very long.

And you pushed it in a little fan really like that.

And I'm carrying this box over and one of my junior colleagues have. What?

Why are you taking the fat? I mean, using the brand new building is $250 million.

You know, I said it's still Yale. Here's the thing about the building.

The offices on that side got to 107 degrees.

We had to come back and completely coat all the windows. Feel all over the building.

Now, like I said, it's still Yale, so, you know.

But there's pluses and minuses. They're also not in here, you know.

Owner telling us what to do. Okay, good.

But anyway, so every once in a while, I'll say.

All right. I wish I had. Oh, no. There's another reason. We'll see about that.

All right. You have? Um. I was so surprised.

I screwed it up. All right, so we have $83.96, and it's here at this point in time.

Like. And I want to go one, two, three periods later.

Let me pick an interest rate out of the air.

Okay. Hmm. How about 6%?

I should soon as an infection set growth rate. So what I mean by that is that's a growth rate per period.

So I got this machine. I put in $83.96 in.

And it grows at 6% every period. How much do I have at the end?

Well we figure it out if I put 83 and 96 in here.

That's my beginning. Balance. 80. Six.

Per year. Okay. Oh, hey.

50%. That's nothing. So I have 83, 96.

And it it actually did. Sorry.

That 8396. What I over this over this period of time.

It grows by. 6%.

So how much is the growth? Anybody can calculate for me.

What's what's 83, 96? I suppose it was like $5.

It's what is it about $5 and five and a half.

Exactly. Give me two decimal places. 035.03.

Sorry. Uh, 5.04.

You had to rewrite it as we did. Okay, so that.

So it grew by this. Right. So now let's think about.

But but I also had I don't know, my 8396 is still there.

Right. So I have this plus I have this.

Right at the end. So I have been to, uh, I've got, uh, $89.

Right. Everybody okay with that?

Okay, here's the kicker. And by the way, if you if you look at this, what would it what would it be like.

It's, um, 83, 96 times one plus 6%.

That's a formula. If you want to. Now what am I going to do?

I'm just going to do the same process two more times.

Okay. But I kind of got to keep my head and head on my shoulders. What do we mean, do the same process time over time?

I'm thinking about walking my way through this timeline.

Okay. So now for this period.

I don't start with 83, 96. I start with 89.

Okay, I start with 89. And again, I have, uh.

What's what's my 6.6% of 89?

6% of any. Let's. That's a 5448.

Let's be five. So 15.

So 48. 55.35 34 okay.

So now I have, uh, what is what do I have in round terms?

534 A and I have that is that $94?

And, um. $0.34.

Right. You see what I did? I just turned the crank.

Turn the crank. What am I going to do? I'm going to do it again. That's why I said one idea.

Okay. One idea. But you have to pay a lot of attention to.

Okay. Like I said in the in the couple businesses I started,

they never let me calculate the actual numbers we were going to like really do anything with because I make too many mistakes.

Okay. But the same thing here. 9434 I said.

So I was .06 and I'll let you work that out.

But I won't tell you. What do you think you get. And just guess a hundred.

Yeah. You guessed based on test taking abilities like that.

But I see where this guy's going. Right? 100.

All right. So now look at what I did.

I actually changed the decision of the person receiving the money in a way that appeared to make it more complicated.

Right? But before you could just consume it, you had to consume it.

Now you have to consume it or invest it. I made your life more complicated.

I made the setting more complicated. But look at what it did for me.

It now it says, oh, there's no reason for anybody to prefer the 100 strictly.

I mean, getting option A is at least as good as being for everybody that has this opportunity.

Okay. Hmm. So now what can I say?

I could say in this setting, I've shown that, uh, the value of.

Of A has to be at least as much as the value of, be it simply because if you have A, you could get B.

As I said, it's sort of a physical reconstruction. Oh, okay.

How cool is that? Well, now let's go the other way.

The financial markets. What if you can?

How do I have to go this way in the diagram?

I loan money to somebody. To somebody else I invest money.

Right. So what about going the other direction? Well, instead of investing, I have to talk about borrowing.

Right. In accounting terms here, you would spend your 8396 on another asset, you know, sort of financial security or something.

Then that whose value grew. And what now we're talking about?

What if you can borrow from the future? So that's a liability now.

We think what I'm doing here is trading money through time.

And the 6% says, if I want to trade some money going forward, the right kind of price is 6%.

So an interest rate is sort of just like a price to the market, right.

But the price of money through time. We don't care that.

Okay, so I'm going to work it backwards. Um. Uh, you know, I could I could write this down.

Uh. Let me see.

This is 100 equals and that. Really? You do all the math and you can say 83, 96 times 1.06.

Uh, well, I actually, this time I, I used, I multiplied these things three times, right.

In this, this whole process, uh, cubed.

That's why we had all this discussion about quadratics and stuff like that.

We just we got something worse than a quadratic.

We got what? You. What if I what if I had cash flows that lasted a hundred periods?

What kind of math would I have to do? Yeah, you'd change the 3 to 100.

So if we were 100, I'd be taking something to the 100th power.

Right? Which Excel could do very easily, you know, but when you're back writing with a quill.

And so it's gonna be tough to do.

Okay. So that's that's where all the problem comes in.

Or the, the more difficult math comes in. And I keep in mind we're just we're just talking about time here.

We have an introduce risk. I'm going to pull that off.

Now what if I want to go back the other way. There's a nice way to think about an easy way to think about it is going forward.

We pretended we were here and we walked through this way. Now let's walk backwards.

So if and but when we walk backwards, I'm going to think about it from the perspective of the person that loans us the money.

So if they can, if they will, if we can borrow money also at 6%.

Okay. So also at 6%. Let's think through the problem.

All right. The person that loads us the money is going to end up with 100, right.

They got to get fully their loan has to be fully repaid. So how much do we have to owe them at the start of the last period?

So when it grows by 6%, they'll end up with the 100. Well, I tell you, it's $94.

I'm just going backwards the other way. I mean, you know. So how much how if that if that has to be 106%, what does that have to be?

It has to be 94, 34. So instead of working on the 9434 here.

I'll say 100 divided by 1.06 is equal to 3434.

Right. And if I keep doing that, what I'll find is that 100 divided by 1.06.

Cubed is equal to 8396.

So as if we just have enough problem multiplying. Now we got these.

Things in the Dominator. Okay.

All right, so now I just completed the argument.

If you can borrow and land at the same rate, these two things have the same value.

This had the same value, meaning there's no reason that any rational decision person decision maker should prefer one over the other.

Because in the setting, if they have one, they can get the other one. So all I have to know, right?

You decide you want to wait to consume. Just investor 8396 to get the 100.

You decide. I'll change my mind. I'm getting kind of hungry. You just go out and borrow it.

It doesn't matter. What.

Which one of these you you start with to make sense?

But more importantly, do you see that we have defined value in an unambiguous way?

To do that, we had to change the context. Now let's talk about the context.

Well. Here's some more.

Also present value 8396. The idea is an idea of physical transformation.

You put something in and actually that it gets transformed.

I wish I hadn't said physical because I was.

I wrote this stuff a long time ago when mostly people were just dealing with cash, paper money.

So I thought physically, but that's not really what's happening. Okay. What's happening is the rights are changing over time.

Your rights to acquire goods and services is changing.

That's what that's what we're moving back and forth.

You can have your rights if you have a lot of rights now, or you can have more rights if you're willing to wait.

All right. But no cash flows or certain borrowing lending at the same rate.

And the economic context, I had to assume, was it was frictionless.

Like I didn't say, you have to pay a fee to borrow the money or you have to pay.

You can invest somebody in, you know, there's an investment fee.

No, no, I just none of that. It was a machine that just converts things.

No friction inside the machine or whatever. Does that make sense?

Well, that's neither. None of these things are real. But what if I do it?

Why did we? We had three examples. I think the first class of, uh, why did we frame the investment problem in terms of opportunity costs?

Because it caused us to think about the problem in a certain way, right?

I mean, the opportunity cost rule itself is just kind of silly. Why did you pick that?

Well, because, uh, my, uh, the opportunity cost of waiting, you would say this.

What about that? Pretty cost of waiting for you is just too high. Yeah.

Okay, fine. But really, that's just a way of saying you actually had two choices and you picked one.

Okay. So this is a framing that when we start investing and borrowing and lending, you know,

this is the the first thing in your mind is that time is a very powerful factor.

And here's how we're going to deal with it. Uh, let me go back to this.

Like this graph. You know what's sort of clear when you back up enough that we noticed is that over time?

Yeah. In any particular times you can have Jags, it moves up and down, but over a longer period of time.

Hey, you grow like that. Like you grow like that.

So the first thing I see when I look at the graph this far, this from this distance, is the powerful effect of time.

Now if I'm looking if I'm stuck back in 1929 and I don't know this thing and I'm just then I'm saying wow,

up and down or right, or if I'm in here just this period of time, I'd say, hi.

What are you talking about? The effects of time. It's moving all over the place. Something else is going on.

But when you back up far enough, did it look smooth like this?

So Mason's response was better than I even realized at the time.

Right. Because you back up if the periods are long enough in some sense,

or the number of periods is long enough, then things kind of give it out or smooth out.

So another way to say it is this force that investors only get by things that they expect a positive return on is kind of the predominant force.

Okay. Oh I see.

So to see where we are figurative. Well, to.

Two cash flow streams. We did all this with all that was all that.

We did all that. It's really frictionless.

No transaction. Okay. So, uh, how about this one?

It's a different one. You get $31.41 every period.

You really want to guess the present value of it? $83 and 96 because I made up the numbers to be that way.

Right. But we can take that.

There's another cash flow pattern. This is. See? It has the same present value as A and B.

We'd say, well, they're all worth the same thing. Why?

Because if you give me any one of them and I want another one, I can just go borrow the LED to reconstruct it.

So very useful exercise is to go back and verify that, say, all right, if I started with 83, 96.

Uh. Is there?

Is there any thinking about what happened compared to Monday, which we had a very different kind of class, right.

This is kind of the way accounting also goes is, is it's like schizophrenic, right.

Because last time we were talking about these conceptual things,

I don't know what I was going order is do a bunch of numbers, then we're gonna go back and that'll happen.

That keeps that keeps going. And we start when we do some calculus, we said, well, what do we do when we did this calculation.

Right. Okay. So let's think about the problem here.

Don't be afraid. If your math skills are rusty we're going to do it all in Excel is.

And you need to understand a little bit how to do this stuff in that book.

So we're going to do we'll start this next time. I will use very simple Excel features to do these kind of calculations.

And there's some stuff about how to who's up who's like not used Excel much.

Anybody not used Excel much YouTube. Oh you got great.

It's super super. So just an added benefit you'll get.

This is going to walk you through just some very basic things that let you make a track who's used at a time a lot.

What a bunch. Where. Oh yeah. Oh in psychology that's good.

No, for philosophy. But I used to be like, my dad has me learning how to use Excel.

I've learned a bit, but what does your dad do? Uh, he does, uh, real estate, finance, affordable housing.

Oh, yeah. Yeah, yeah. So he's he's talking about all the time.

He's thinking about money or back. He learned the. Oh, yeah.

So we can set the calculator up. This is definitely one of those in a long time.

Yeah okay. So this semester did you get to that just for this class.

No. No. It would be like two years ago. I just didn't get around to learning it for a little while, so I was actually working in.

It's a nepotism thing.

In the administration's Obama state, where I was an undergraduate for for my brother in law who was head of the university computing,

or he actually eventually went to Idaho to become head of all the University of Computing.

When he was Oklahoma State, he was just administrative computing.

And I remember one day he came back with the thing, the calculator that looked like that in your mind, if you have any of these things,

and it was and he paid for, I think I remember he paid $489 for that calculator because, oh, look at this.

Isn't this wonderful? I can do this thing. And then, you know, within a couple of years, banks are giving him away for, like, walking by the stores.

Yeah. Much cheaper. It's pretty efficient, though. Yeah it is.

And so I'm glad you see you have that because probably if your dad's doing this to you, it's probably not just letting you calculate.

He's probably asking you to explain what you're doing. Right. Why you should do that.

Why that's what we're all about here is that part about the calculation.

Part of accountants are very simple people. We add, subtract, multiply, divide.

That's it. You know no giant other though whatever these things are we add subtract, multiply, divide.

But we do it repeatedly. So you have to watch this.

All right. So so let's just think about um, what I the problem and how I lay it out 8396.

So if I have that and then over one period it's going to grow to 89.

Right. And then what I have to say is what if at that point we took out.

3141 so then going forward we'd have 89 -3141 and it grows.

Okay. And then we do that again. So.

Yeah. So so so going forward we have.

89 -3141.

That times 1.06. And then we'll then we're going to take out another.

I don't know what that number is. I'm going to take out another 3141.

Then we'll let that grow. And if we take out the final 3141.

And we end up with nothing. Right. So try that. Absolutely.

If you learn some Excel tricks, you can try that out. Or you can do the other way.

If you do nothing and you wait, you get 3141 here.

Invest invested at 6%. Then you spend another 3141.

So take your the value of the first 34.

Compound it up at 3141.

You get here. Compound that up. You get 100 bucks okay.

So this main trick of.

Embedded the decision problem in a market context.

And, uh, and, you know, I loved your response because, you know, because, uh,

what I started off saying, we're so used to the context that we kind of can take it for granted.

Sometimes it's just, you know,

we take it for granted and we automatically frame our problem in ways that we make assumptions we don't even know we have.

You know, when this, like, killed us. The financial crisis of 2009 killed people.

Because they're used to thinking about the capital markets of being very liquid.

That is, you can buy and sell any time you want to buy. There are all kinds of financial markets were very liquid.

Guess what? It froze up. The shadow banking system froze up and so forth.

And and then people like up. Uh oh.

I guess. I guess I was making some implicit assumptions I didn't think about.

And as long as the world continues the way that you're sort of consistent with your assumption, you may never even know you make it.

But if a big enough change that happens, you get slapped upside the head.

Right in a not a good way with if you're not sort of don't understand what's going on.

Okay. So so so this is a special case called an annuity.

Uh, level payments. This one is what's called an annuity in arrears okay.

That is it's level payments for a certain period of time. And then you get the payment at the end of the period, not at the beginning.

If you got the payment at the beginning of the period, it would be an annuity in advance.

Bonds. What's a coupon bar?

We're good at it, you know. How many of you have ever been on a field trip in a class here?

You know? Anybody? Nobody.

Oh. You have. Where'd you go? We went hiking on the canal trail.

What class is that for? It was for American environmental history.

Uh, damn. Okay. With one person? Anybody else with it?

What field trip? Uh, went to the met. Yeah.

Oh, yeah. And what did you. What did you see?

Uh, they're just a bunch of painting sculptures.

Well, for all of you who haven't taken a field trip, this is your class.

Because we're going to take a field trip to the fourth floor of this building.

Because we got a whole bunch of financial instruments.

A couple of my colleagues have collected examples of financial instruments like coupon bonds, and we'll be able to see them.

That's what it is. Okay. This piece of paper with this, see that we've talked about it.

Okay. So it's a field trip. You know, it's going to be a field trip.

Going to be great. But a coupon bond.

What it does is it is it promises to pay.

It's got an annuity. That's the coupon rate. But it's also got, uh, like a balloon payment at the end.

So it might pay you, for example, consider a coupon bond.

And don't worry, we'll we'll talk a lot about this language so that you're accustomed to it, but it has a face value of 100 bucks.

So that just means, you know, 100 is the calculation figure we start with and it pays a 6% coupon.

What that means is, as you're promised, this cash flow straight.

So if you bought a bond with a $500 face value and a 6% coupon.

All it means is it's just a language for saying this is what I'm promising you.

Okay. Now, once we have it, once we understand that language, then we just have cash and then we just cry forward,

backward, present value, future value of all that stuff. One of the people that pioneered that.

Anybody know anybody that sort of pioneered all this discounting stuff?

Yale person Irving Fisher,

unfortunately went broke during the Great Depression and people had to take him in their home because he was a big speculator.

But he did a lot of stuff with present values and, and, um, and what's a bond worth?

You know, but mean the first person that looked at it and said, oh, this is two streams,

you know, an annuity of the coupon payments plus the face coming back.

Okay. That's the that's the cash, I promise.

Now let me go figure and think about what I know about interest rates and figure out what's the value of that bond today in this world,

in this imaginary world, we can borrow land at the same rate.

That's a benchmark for it. Yeah. At the end of period three, shouldn't the amount that you've seen be greater than $106?

Uh, no. Why should it?

I was just thinking, if you're getting 6% at each period and you're starting at 100 at the first period, would you be getting like, $6 on top?

It was the first period. It'd be like 100. Well, uh, okay.

So right now I haven't talked about the present value of this thing, but let's do talk about the present value of it.

But this is just a language to describe the cash flow pattern that I'm promising you.

So I'm promising to give you $6, $6, 106.

Oh, so we don't know that the start that the starting amount. No, we don't know the starting back.

I'm sorry. Yeah. Anytime you have some idea if you can email me or whatever I often get I've just done this too many times.

I have to get the. You're seeing it for the first time.

But let's think about that. Suppose I had $100 today, and I loaned it to this person in the first period.

If that 100, I would would grow to 106.

But they pay me the six. So how much goes forward?

100. So if the interest rate is, we'll get to be very careful with this.

If the interest rate is equal to the coupon rate this thing will sell for 100.

Now what happens? Well we will explore what happens when the interest rate is greater than the coupon rate or less than the coupon.

Right. Because remember,

I'm really trying to get you to really lock in on the fact that all this language is just about how I'm going to promise you a cash flow stream.

It's not about the economics of what it's worth or anything else.

It's just these are the cash flows you can expect to get. Yeah. Um, so if the interest rate is higher than, um, the coupon rate, would it?

Yeah. Selling at a, uh, discount.

Yes. It. Well, because you would be getting paid less or sorry, you would be getting paid a lower coupon than what the.

Well, yeah. So, so like let's suppose let's take a simple example.

Again we'll go through a uh, a lot of that stuff in great detail.

But let's suppose the interest rate real sort of like 10%.

So if I, if I, if I bought this blog for $100 and I go forward, well it's going to it should be worth 110 at the end of the period.

But I only get paid six. So that means it doesn't.

It's not going back to its original state of 100 every time.

So if you work how this all comes together and this is where it gets, gets complicated, how this all comes together is,

I will tell you that the present value of this stream, if the interest rate is more than 6%, is less than $100.

If the interest rate is less than 6%, it's more than $100.

Okay. This is the kind of stuff we have to feel. Yeah.

Let's go to another. Yeah. Super quick. So that that means at maturity you would get, uh, a lot.

So if you paid $85 for the bond of maturity, you did 100 on a discounted bond.

Well, yeah. Because remember, the only thing I'm talking about here is the promised cash flows.

So you are getting those cash flows. Okay. What that's worth depends on the interest rates.

Right. And then, you know, people start playing off the difference between, you know,

if we're going to be had to be very careful between the coupon rate which determines the cash flows,

and the interest rate, which determines the economics of the price of borrowing money.

Really, when I said interest rates, the price of borrowing through time. Okay.

So we don't have class Monday, right? Oh, gee.

All right. That's okay. Um, I've developed some of these little interactive things also that gets you to work through these.

Inch by inch. Just like I really just like I did in class, I had a little.

I had a, uh, momentarily stressful personal thing that I did, a little interactive artifact, and I did.

Working through this, I thought, why not have a class so you can just sit there?

But part of it is it's, you know, you need to go through stuff, take the time to look at it, but I will see if I can develop an artifact.

It just takes us through this whole thing. And then, uh, I'd like your reaction time.

So, you know, class versus that. I'm expecting, by the way, if universities adapt to the new.

