[Auto-generated transcript. Edits may have been applied for clarity.]
See? Good morning.

Gordon. I mean.

Reagan. Top.

Oh. Got everything real in here. It's like you like hiding.

Okay. Let's go. Oh, we're getting down to the few packets when you post videos.

All right. So we're going to continue. 165 would be a socialist network.

This is really going to be is it very uh I we're actually going to touch on basically in

almost all a lot of the accounting issues that we're going to see the rest of the course.

So but it's at a very high level. It's going to be very high level.

Okay. But I didn't. But it's you know, you'll see. Okay.

So uh, basically what we talked about, what we've been talking about are setting up over time,

uh, over the whole semester is the ability to talk about cash flows, but value flows as well.

Okay.

So when we do all of those present value calculations, when you track how value moves through time in a very clean setting, let's just think of it.

165 would you associate it just has one thing. It doesn't make stuff or perform any services or what.

It has one asset and that assets again just generates it.

Just a cash machine. Okay.

But we develop the, uh, the tools and the bottles and the viewpoint so that we can see with that kind of cash flow generation process,

how does value change over time versus when do we get to cash.

So all the present value stuff, what that does is it helps you tie together the stream of cash flows with value.

Okay. Now the stream of value flows we're going to show is different than the cash flow stream.

But it's related to it. Right. That is that we know we use the cash flow stream to calculate the values,

but the numbers we end up with are just different flow period by period than the cash flows.

That's what we really want to get into, okay. Because that's the big idea.

The biggest idea of financial accounting is what I just said, that yeah.

You want to track cash flows, you want to track cash. But you maybe you'd also like to track what's happening to value as you go through time.

Okay. Because, you know, in the long run that's that's what really is going to drive.

It's going to drive your future cash flows. Right. So there's a sense in which just looking at the current cash flows, it's very myopic.

And we're not we don't want to be biased. Now as a teaser, we're starting with a company that just has one asset.

Just this one asset. But look, when you do financial valuation, whatever they're doing, you just try to convert to a stream of projected cash flows.

Okay. So we're just taking the simplest possible case.

So the financial value of the things we're looking at here is determined by the stream of cash flows amounts and timing generally also uncertainty.

But you know we'll talk about that later.

The only thing we've talked about so far with regard to uncertainty is just how to set up limited liability entities to do,

to do your business activity so that somebody so there can come to your personal well.

Okay. And then what we our main tool is to talk about the present value of a cash flow stream at any point in time, at any point in time.

So that means that we can, uh, what what is that present value?

Out of way, out of our way to define that money in an idealized setting.

Any two cash flow streams with the same present value would be actually really just two legs for the same thing,

because you could convert one to the other. That was like the first lesson in present values that with borrowing and lending take, it's all costless.

The present value is the language. This discount stuff is the language you need to talk about value.

Okay. Uh, no cash flows for us.

And so far we've looked at financial instruments like bonds that promise a fixed cash flow stream.

And then, you know,

there's another thing we want to do is just get used to the terminology that people use in finance and the things we say about here,

uh, the words they put on underoos the special cases of stuff.

Really now. Uh, okay.

So we looked at coupon bonds.

Uh, we've we've talked very carefully about always make sure you distinguish the coupon rate from the interest rate, what the face value is,

you know, the face value of the coupon rate and the term and all that stuff, or just a language to tell you what the cash flow stream is.

So problem set one that I post that really tries to hammer that homework.

First of all saying, okay, here's a bunch of things. Figure out the cash flow stream.

You know you're not going to discount them. You know the first thing, you're going to figure out the cash flow stream.

Then once you get the cash flow stream, you don't need to carry all that other stuff with you.

You're going to use the interest rate and the compounding period to do the discount.

Well, and also where are you discounting back to where is that?

Okay. Now with the with the Excel tool we can do this so easily.

We can talk about marching through time. We can say okay what happened to that?

What about if if what are we going to see if we look from today, what are we going to see.

If we look from a year from now, what are we going to see if we look for two years and so forth.

And we can just calculate the crap out of that stuff, right.

With Excel just by copying and pasting. All right.

Uh, so this is the main point.

And, and you know, you can say it and everybody will sit around and not about it, but we're going to get we're going to have to wrestle with this.

This will be fully, completely absorbing this in the context of computer accounting for stores and manufacturers and stuff like that.

That'll be I will venture to guess, the hardest thing in the course, and it will be when you get there.

You got it. But this is the process.

You go, uh, it's like a it's a complex thing. When we get into we have a lot of these are a lot of complex.

And you kind of it starts taking shape for people.

But then the most fun I have in class is when somebody says, oh, I got it because it's like a system.

It all fits until you see how everything's connected is kind of mysterious, you know?

Oh, it's I see how it all fits. And then you're done with it.

Then you're done with learning how the basically how any accounting system works for doing anything, any financial accounting,

whether it's taxes, the US law, US, GAAP, IFRS, whatever, they all run off this double entry in this accounting identity kind of framework.

They make all the bunch of judgment calls differently. So when we get very soon, we're going to start in the real accounting part.

And I'm going to have to I'll try to flag for you where real judgment calls are being made.

Okay. Because some things are like trivial. Like I think just like this is how we started.

165 Whitney Associates, right? Is trivial because what we did was the first thing I asked you to do, you're going to keep track of anything.

What was obvious you want me to keep? Track cash. Only one thing had happened, but people had given me cash and given the company cash.

And so clearly you want to keep track of that. All right.

So, uh, uh, you know, so so we started off with something that's the recognition stage of accounting.

We started off with, uh, with an easy example, which was receipt of cash.

Okay. I found my personal plans.

We'll see if that works at work. Oh, wow. Yeah.

Recognition. Okay, that's the first step of doing an accounting process.

And so we started with the simple example, receipt of cash, uh, by selling membership shares.

Okay. So this was a big thing. Cash flows in value values related but not identical.

We're starting off where the value is well-defined.

We're going to get to places where. And we're just kind of have a somewhat intuitive idea of what we're doing.

And we just still go forward. Okay.

For example, if I just ask you, if we really ask you the financial sense, what will be what's the value of this class financially to you?

Well, we had learned something. And somehow maybe, maybe if you just want to say financial value,

of course it's making you more fulfilled human beings and educated and able to live in the world.

And oh, that's great. We love that, that that's the biggest value.

But if I just talked about the financial value, what would you have to do?

You'd have to somehow try to figure out how much all your stream of future earnings was increased because you went to this class.

All right. That's a that's a ridiculously impossible thing to try to do.

But that's what you would trouble. You know, you'd say, well, okay, I guess that's what I have to do.

Right. And so when we so, so what are the universities making financial decisions or you know,

if suppose we're a for profit business and you're literally customers buying,

you know, information from us, then, you know, we'd have to figure out, well, how much can we charge for it.

Well, it's an economic decision. So people are going to tend to pay us what they think they're going to be able to get ready.

You know, so the logic, the frame, the logic will go forward.

It's just that we're going to apply it in a complex world where things don't mean exactly what you know, what they already well the finances okay.

Oh so what do we do so far. What have we done?

We formed an LLC. We issued some membership units I guess not really shares.

And we used the $50,000 to, to buy some bonds.

Okay. And um, I wanted to go through and figure out with you that a little bit about that transaction because again,

the transaction has to be we have to understand and analyze the transaction in order to do any accounting for it.

So accounting is what is telling a financial story or a story about what little Red Riding Hood goes, you know, it's a story about economic activity.

So you saw this. So the way we write the story is a function of will.

What kind of activity are you playing? You know, what am I looking at here?

The seascape. Or am I looking at, you know, the mood or what?

So the first thing I wanted to really talk about with you is this notion that, um,

what we're going to do when we start telling the accounting story is doing the financial story using accounting.

One of the first things we're going to do is we're going to talk about substance.

Use. I want to carry this Raven stepson's verses for.

Okay. That is what is, economically speaking, what's really what's going on here.

You know, I know the form of it is we said somebody the government and they made a certain kind of promise to pay.

But the substance of it is we're loaning the government money for 30 years does that.

So that's the economic substance of the transaction.

Now, how do I know these things? Well, this is kind of just like looting the world and having some economic intuition.

And and and sorting through, you know, because people do a million different.

They just they dress up borrowing in a million different ways.

But look, it's just borrowing. Okay. So that's the first.

That's a it's a big step in the accounting process as we analyze the transaction.

And we try to try to characterize what's happening, the substance of it, not the form of it,

because we're trying to tell the economic story, not, you know, how they did it all.

Okay, so we drew a cash flow map, right?

So so I wanted to go through with you all this transaction and carefully feel okay.

This deform is we sent the $50,000.

We they they we purchased bonds with the face value of 57 902 or 764 if you really want to know.

And and the substance is they were going to yield us 4.85% compounded annually and had the, the four minutes rather.

And then how much are they going to send us?

5702 times 4% coupon rate divided by two is up 2% every six months.

They're going to send us a wrap for 30 years. And then the last, they're also going to give us back the 57 902 okay.

So that's the form of it. And then we started going through the substance of it.

Right. And that's what I want to do today. So I want to draw.

Like I want to think about the value map or how does value change through time with this.

Um, including the receipt of the first few. Um.

Uh, payoffs. But I also want to make up the financial statements as we go.

Okay. So, uh, next time, what?

I'm going to do what I want to do. Oh, I guess I guess I got to just start doing it.

Okay. It's a it's a short slideshow to hear.

Um, but. Okay.

So that's that's a that's a brief review. The next time is also going to be uh, I'll try to remember this as well.

Where we're going right now, we're just assuming that the interest rate stays.

The change stays the same okay. Interest rate stays the same through time.

But what are we going to do next? Well, we're going to make a change. Okay.

It's not a. You know.

So. So that's what we're going to do next. Oh, well, we already did this already.

Uh, okay.

Your chair. You know that stuff on the value map?

All right. So let's let's just start going and, you know, sort of see what we do, what we can get up with.

So I think there's if you go to the class page, you want to pull up the if you want to,

you can um, use the link to the file and you should be getting my where's my cursor?

Oh, man. I mean, it just it's just so ridiculous. Oh, you're on it.

Uh huh. All right. Fine. Okay, so the, uh.

Uh, so it got got going on in the spreadsheet.

So this is what happened in more detail. It was February 2nd, right where we had class B, I think it was a.

Was it a week from now? It was just one of Monday.

Oh I don't know where you are. I'm so lost I don't know.

But I think it was February 2nd. Okay. And, uh.

Yeah, it was just last class. Just, uh, just on Monday. And so we have these bonds.

We decided actually to buy a bonds that had a maturity of 30 years.

Now, why did I do that? Well, I did that.

I did 30 years because I want you to get a sense of real time and the fact that since you can copy and paste formulas in Excel,

doing 30 years is just as easy as doing three. Right.

Once you get it set up, you just drag. Okay. And, uh, so this is kind of a step of, uh, about getting out of the, um, you know,

getting into an Excel type mindset where you can actually make models of your situations and, you know, some fair amount of detail.

You know, back when, uh, you know, people were doing all this stuff by hand.

You'd use examples of, like, 10% interest rate and you'd do it maybe once or twice, but there's no way you're going to show the way.

Something's going to evolve over 30 years by hand. But now it's just as easy to do.

It is. But that's that's my that's my agenda. Okay.

So the first thing we did was we drew the cash flow map. Right.

And the cash flow map just says what? Well, this promise, there's two types of things.

There's a coupon. 4% semiannual, so it's going to pay 2% every six months.

You know, now when you set up something like this, you know, notice I've set up time in six month variables.

You can. You don't have to do that, right. You could have said zero one half one so that every time I saw an integer about two years.

But what you have to do is make sure that the way you treat the interest rate is consistent with the way you define the periods, right?

That makes sense. And what about that? The purpose of that is so.

So you get kind of used to this notion that you really always have to pay attention to the periods of things that.

And so I think I told you, uh, how would I be on this all?

Still, having said something about interest, the maximum interest rate you charge but didn't say the period?

Yes, I don't regret, but I wouldn't want to have argued with them back then.

You know, it's no good if you said, you know, that's a year.

And you said. But you didn't say that, I don't think that's something you'd want to say to the King back.

Okay. Or, uh, relevantly, when you pick up a financial statement,

that's for a period of time and you always have to look at what am I looking at, a year or a quarter a month?

You know, you just always so, you know,

some of the things I would want to do are just kind of build in automatic things you do without having to think about it,

you know, like you don't think about to put yourself on autopilot to do that.

And then that that means you're not having to use any of your cognitive brainpower to force yourself to do that, because you're used to it.

Okay. Might as well get used to that here. All right, so, uh, so the coupon payment.

Well, uh, that's just, uh, take the interest rate divided by two times the face value.

And, uh, there we go. Okay, so we're going to get 60 of those.

Oh, wow. This is fun. Uh, we're going to get 60 of those, and then we're going to get the face value back.

Right. Everybody does that, so I just added them up.

So then I added the total cash flow up.

And I say look what's going to happen is they're going to we're going to get repaid over this 30 years, $127,383.61.

That's how much is going to come back. Right.

We load 50 days. Why does four come back?

Then we load. Interest, right, that the government is paying us a rate, a fee to return our money over time.

Right. So naturally they have to pay back in total, more than ever.

First time you ever to buy a home and you get a mortgage and you look up how much?

Well, a lot of times I think they they'll they'll show you this is the total cash you paid back.

You go. Whoa, right. Why is it so much bigger than the principal you borrowed?

Not only is it interest is compound interest. Right.

So depending on how what your repayment schedule is, you could end up having to pay a lot more cash or less cash depending on when you repay.

Okay. But you know, the story really is here.

It's like we know this is a common accounting issue too.

We know that over the life of the 30 years we're going to have earned, or we're going to have $77,383.61 of interest, right?

That's the total time. That's what we're going to get.

Okay, now, what we want to do, though, and tell the story of value unfolding over time is to show the process of earning that overtime.

You know, not just say, oh, well, that's 77 383.

Is that should I just take 1/60 of that and say we don't.

Every six months we are in that well now. Right.

Because we have a compound interest model going on here and we can do better than that.

You'll see a lot of times what we do in accounting for like say depreciation of fixed assets and stuff like that.

It's just what I just said. What's the useful life? Divide it up, chop it up, make it go down linearly.

We start this. We start here by looking at this because we have a good model of how value declines okay.

I'm pretty cool with that. So how am I going to tell the value story?

Well, I have to track present value through time. So let's just look at the economics of the investment.

So here I have the cash flow indie. Uh, and here I have figured out, like, the interest income and what has to happen to the bond value.

So how do I do that? Well, it's all based on present values of the cash flows.

I'm sorry. The cash flows are, um. This is just the present value of every cash flow.

Um, so what is the value of the bond?

Uh, six months in. Oh, just for health sake.

I measured time differently in this window than the other one is. Well.

Um. It's got to be the present value of the remaining cash flows.

So if you did excel. What? I'm trying to get you into that notion that if I move time.

Unless I'm dealing with the perpetuity, the cash flow picture.

When I stick my head up above the cash, the timeline and look out.

Well, if I'm one year further than I was, or six month further than it was, I see a different picture.

I got to do everything again. Cool.

All right. So we went through this a little bit.

Right.

And so, so I you know, I said the the real uh, point here is the difference between, oh, how can I, how can I select two things at the same time?

Why? Why do I have, like, a mac? Okay, let me try this.

Okay. So those two highlighted cells, the difference between those.

That's just what we started exploring right.

We started exploring hey we got $1,158.03 in cash.

But what did I say? But what did we think that the value created was?

Well, we said, here is when we had to go to the substance of the transaction.

So what's the substance of the transaction? Well, the substance of the transaction was we loaned the government $50,000.

And the interest rate. Was.

That an interest and an interest rate of 4.87%.

Divided by two. And so the interest income.

Is we you know, do do the calculation right.

The the interest interest income would be.

1000. What is it? 217.

50. Right. Yeah.

What is the bond value like? Increased like the interest rate over the the bond.

The coupon payment only determines the promised cash flow.

Right. So they put 4% coupon. The only thing I use that information for is to figure out how much cash is if I getting.

Once I get that figured out, all those terms go up.

Now I'm talking about borrowing money. Yeah, that's the principle of interest, right?

The principles like the amount you borrow. Right. Does that help?

Yeah. So this is, you know, debt. Yeah.

What you're going through is very is common, and you have to trip over it a lot.

And people make it. You know, in practice, people just screw this up all the time.

They'll say, what was the interest on the bond? Would that be the coupon rate?

We don't want to do that. Right. You want to have it here?

Be sharp. But wait a minute. Are they talking about the coupon rate or the interest rate?

Because the interest rate is what? That's the price of trading money through time.

The coupon rate is just telling. Use is a language to tell you what cash you're going to get.

Okay. But, you know, if you got to do this a whole bunch of times and then you get familiar with it, right?

You know, what's the input to what. You know, I can say you can listen to it, but I got we got like 6 or 7 things floating around here.

And I'm just going back and forth, running all over the territory.

Like, you know, I tried to remember when 1973 or something when I first ran into this and sitting in class and.

Yeah, right. It's a bunch of different terms that I put out because I completely used to write.

You know, I'll usually do a few things in along the way that if you have some confusion,

we'll try to get you to trip on us, because that's the only way you learn.

Oh, yeah, I didn't. I got that messed up.

And once you once you do that a few times, then you got it right. Okay.

So you know. So.

So so a big deal when we started doing our balance sheet was to say, oh, okay, let me, let me do some real accounting for this now.

Uh, I'm going to I'm going to do the accounting. The identity assets minus liabilities.

That's going to be my. The key thing I work with.

And I'm going to define that in this case to be equity.

I mean, I'm not defining. I'm just that's the word I'm using. That's the name for the difference between assets and liabilities in a for profit.

Okay. And you remember what happened after we went?

Six months. We started telling us what we had.

We said, well, we've got cash the government just sent us.

And that's that. You know, cash was 115803.

And and over here on our our equity side, we had what we we had, uh, members contributions 50,000.

Contributed. People called us something like contributed capital against the words.

Author. That's what we got.

But we know what we meant. Right? But what we read is that's the money we raised.

But if initially. And then look, if if we, uh.

You know, if we, if we earn interest.

Income. That in value terms, and I'm keeping that.

I'm keeping the accounts in value terms. I know that I should.

I should have added 1000. To 1750.

This is sort of, I want to say value added during period.

And so if I can add, I see that this is, uh.

What, 51,000? Two, 1750.

This identity says, hey, hey, hey guy. Then if that's what the equity is, the assets minus liabilities have to be that.

We don't have any liabilities, so that makes it easy for this, right?

No liabilities. Don't worry about that.

So however I do it, I got to figure out that my total assets has to be 51 to 7050.

That's that's got to be if I want to say good in a different way, if I want to say that their earnings, the value they added was $1,217.50.

Then I want to account for that in the accounting identity. I have to get to this because that's all.

I can count the cash, right? I can count that. I know that number 100%.

But how do I get in?

This is where we all are. Oh. Uh uh um uh.

What happened? Well, what happened is the value of the bond.

Had to go up. Or the TVA or whatever you want to call it.

Whatever. The thing as we go was, uh, had to be 50,000.

Oh 59. 47.

Right. Who?

Well, a good so. So what I just did is kinda general way you go about doing the accounting.

Even even in less clear cases. Normally it would be.

It might be something a little different. Like this. Like I could have done it in a different way and said, what's the value of a t-bill?

Well, the value of the t-bill six months in is the present value of future cash flows.

If you do the present value, the future cash flows are the remaining cash flows.

You'll find that that's 50,059 47.

And then if you add then you get the total assets being this.

Then that will tell you when the total equity set to be. Just tell you what the interest earned has to be.

Okay. Now here we have a nice model where it all fits together very logically.

The present value, the bonds value at any point in time is the present value.

But future cash flows the interest at any any period is the beginning balance times the interest rate.

Okay. So all of that present value model makes all that stuff fit together, right?

Okay. So now, uh, if any questions or talking.

I tend to go too fast sometimes. In.

So like I said, I'm just too used to it. Okay?

Yes.

I got a question about just how, you know, if you could put the all those numbers into the like, where would all those numbers fit into the assets?

Minus liabilities equals equity right there. So the table of title is the 5050.

Yeah. That's the assets that you are looking at the accounting balance sheet six months.

And this is what you would see okay. It's a assets that plus that equity debt plus that totals that up.

Good. Okay then that is the generally accepted accounting principles balance.

Six months in assuming the interest rates stay the same.

Okay. And even under other circumstances,

there are circumstances in accounting where we're going to say we're not even going to pay attention if the interest rate changes,

but we're gonna talk about that next time. Okay.

But you can stare at this a long time and think.

And. You had a way to think about the way the value was evolving, and that gave you a different number than the cash you got this period right.

So if I want to. Um.

I want to do this exact. Well, let's let's do what's called an income statement.

You know, every time I do this with the Morse code.

Up and down. When I was in graduate school at Stanford, has played tennis with a friend of mine,

and he did a service to my back, giving them a bit of like this in my backseat stuff.

And I got this in the summer. So we had stochastic processes.

No, we had a statistics course where they actually went into how statistics really works.

And I'd had a bunch of statistics. Quite a few, at least two in Oklahoma stated.

I didn't want to say I did not learn a thing. So when I took the class at Stanford, I learned all these things about tests and of tests and so forth.

I never heard this before. I looked up on my shelf. I used to keep all my books.

I looked up on my shelf. I had a textbook. In that textbook.

I had tabbed all the various tables you need to do this. I hadn't made an A in the course.

I knew nothing because I didn't know how it worked.

And this was they taught it more like as a cookbook, you know, and I knew nothing.

And then when I found out, oh, this is how it works.

Well, I'm still not a great statistics person, but I have a chance, you know, I remember it and other do this and this and this, this chemistry.

But anyway, so I'm in this statistics class and uh, by the way, I found out something about my system.

You know, we couldn't have a back. They gave me muscle relaxants and probably value.

And, you know, you have to be careful with something like value. You know, this, it can take you either way.

Really. Most people, it comes down with me at random.

So every day in class, we would come in, in this guy, this visiting guy from Canada would come in and he would write on the board,

the back, and then he would pull one down in front of it before I could write everything down.

And he started to do that. I would stop it like that, I know.

Anyway. So every time I pull the board down, I'll take it back to, to to my youth when I, uh, scared the [INAUDIBLE] out of some.

So, professor, he didn't know because I was. I stopped taking development after that.

Okay. But anyway. So. So what I want to do now is let's do what's called, like, an income statement, okay, for the company.

So the income statement, what that's about is trying to show you.

Yeah, I did it a little. Let me do this. Oh, here we go.

So. So let's just. Let me let me go back a little bit if you look.

So our beginning balance sheet. We had assets and all.

Where we're going to have is assets in equity. Right.

Oh. So that's. Oh, let me, let me do it this way.

Assets. Equity. Okay.

And to begin with, we had nothing.

Right. And then this is it.

Tiring, you know? Uh, this is before we started the company, and then we had cache of 50, and we had equity.

So yeah. So we got we had cache of 50.

And we had equity of 15. Right.

That was the charge. And then after we did the blind, we had.

Cash zero. Bond 50.

Equity. 50. Okay, so every time I write something down, I'm keeping.

Everything's in balance. Always right. Meaning that it was there.

Absolutely. Positively. Right. And now then, this is just what we just did.

We're going to go six months down the road. This is six months in.

And now we've got cash of 1001 58.

That's a coupon payment of three. Instead, we have a von, uh 50.

This is my value story now. Oh 59. 47.

Okay, so our total our total assets were what.

And I the total assets. 5051.

So our total assets were. Um.

51. 1750.

51 to 1750.

Down in the equity, I'm going to say is now I'm going to split that into two parts, right.

There's the contributed part. Which was the same 50.

And then the third part.

Of this. Undercard under.

This 1 to 1 seven. And.

Okay, so that it totaled out. The same.

Okay. So. So what I want you to look at is.

This is where. This is where our identity started.

Here. Right.

And then this is where it ended six months ago. Okay, so those are snapshots of points in time.

Well we also have it. And that's that's the balance in accounting.

But we also have statements that help us explain what the heck happened.

Okay. That is what happened along the way. So one statement we have that does that is called an income statement.

So let's look at an income statement. Not what the income statement is about.

It's to see how, you know, implicitly our contributed equity was zero and our, uh, retained earnings as, uh, was zero.

So what the income statement is about is telling us the story for how this number went from zero.

To. $1,217.50.

We have a statement that says tell tells that. Like I said, that's the the income statement.

Ooh, that's so dark back there, I don't know. Uh oh.

That's okay I. So let's do the income statement.

Income statement. Before the six months in.

Yeah. Now these I'm going to say for the six months starting earlier and ending there.

Right. Starting February 2nd meeting in August.

Okay. So in the income statement we want to track.

Value. I say I should do what we want to track here.

Is value flowing in. So how much is that.

How much value? Are we saying it was created over the first six months?

Yeah. Is it 1217 is the earnings.

Is the interest revenue right.

The only thing that only thing that this operation did was just sit there on the bar and that and because time passed then it's got interest revenue.

Okay. So I'd say interest revenue. Would be 1000 to 1750.

Okay. Now accountants always like to also say, well, wait a minute, what were our expenses?

You know, usually if you if you have revenue, if you sell something to people where you have salesmen,

you have all kinds of expenses associated with it. We're doing a very simple problem.

Simple example here. Expenses. For expenses.

Did we have zero right.

I because we know we. I didn't tell you. We don't.

We're not tracking a big story of you have to pay me a salary and blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah.

Right. So this means the net income.

For the period is 1000 to 1750.

Okay. And what is that? What is that telling us?

It tells us why our beginning biology number went from 0 to $1217.50.

Because we the accounts here for the story have a model and we have a way.

So we have a good way to think about this. And we're saying value created was 1000 to 1750.

Nothing was paid out. That's the retained earnings added to that.

This is an important perspective. This is an important perspective.

Uh. It's kind of the highest level.

The way we're going through this is that we put down an accounting identity here,

and we put down one accounting identity here, and then we explain what we did.

We explain the numbers we put down. Right.

Well, I'm pretty confident here. The numbers we put down in this case should be really good, right?

I mean, if the interest rate didn't change. And we go look at the market.

We go look at the bonds that are trading on the market. So now they're not 30 year bonds anymore.

They're 29 year and 29.5 year bonds.

And the, uh and one coupon payments is gone.

If we look at the price they're trading on the market at, well, the bonds traded on the market and their future cash flows, it's $50,059.

That's what we're going to see in the market. We're going to say, hey, I, uh we got it nailed here.

Okay. But one of the things I want to just, uh.

Put down a marker for it. Is there actually two characteristics of this example we're doing?

One of them is it's very simple that they only own one thing. And we have a good model for how value is created, but implicitly.

Another thing is when we're recognizing.

Here. Everything.

Complete in 165 Whitney Associates.

That is, there's nothing going on. Right now that I didn't build into the accounting.

This is generally not true. Okay, so that's why when you look up, you should look up Apple.

Did I do this? And we do this already before. Apple's a good one.

You look at what their stock is trading four times the number of shares outstanding.

That's called the market capitalization and that's over $3 trillion.

Right now I think it's about $3 trillion. If you look at the equity on their balance sheet.

Take a guess. I can look at their financial statements.

I write down their equity.

You think that the the that I could see 3 trillion in the accounting reports that I see a few hundred billion, maybe 360, as I recall, 360 billion.

That's what's on the balance sheet. The market's telling us you guys left out a lot, but what did we leave out?

The creation of all intellectual property, the design of the iPhone, the brands,

the knowledge of how you maintain these things that you know, it goes on and on and on and on.

What we're going to see is in complicated businesses that that recognition criteria really bikes.

That is a lot of stuff that we don't put in and we know we're not putting it.

So when I look at financial statements, I have to be keenly aware of that.

I have to be keenly aware of what I'm looking at, but also I need to be keenly aware of what I'm not looking at.

Right? So I just don't worry about that right now. But just note that here.

Anything important happening? We're just nailing it because almost nothing is happening right by my side.

Right. Knows nothing. Zach. Okay. Well, would you like.

So here my net income was 1250.

And I show that on an income statement. Hey, there's another number that changed quite a bit.

What was that? What about this?

Um. Oh! Catch it! Oh, I don't do it.

Oh. What about cash? Transcript from zero.

We had zero caps here to.

115803. How did that happen?

What's the story of that? So we have another accounting statement that tells us that.

Oh. And what do you think that other income statement is called?

Well, I'm going to write it in green because it's the cash flow statement.

Okay. It's only telling us what happened in cash. Right.

So cash flow statement. Well, look what happened to cash.

Now I'd have to go back inch by inch and look at my cash balance.

Started at zero, then it went to 50.

I went to 50 because we did what we had a what's called a financing.

Decision. We issued. Membership shares.

Just issued shares. Right.

And we brought in 50 for that. What else did we do with our cash?

We sent somebody. We sent it to the government. Right. So for that we had.

And investing cash flow.

Right. And that was we said 50 and normally in accounting of, uh, all right things in parenthesis, we, we bought.

Bonds. And then the final thing we did was we collected a coupon payment.

Right. So I'm going to call that operating because that's all we do in our operations is collect fees from that.

And then operating. We received a coupon payment.

Of. 1001 58 003.

Right. Okay.

So the total change in cash. The change in cash was 1001 5803.

Right. So this is another statement you'd have when you look.

Yeah. Oh, I know this is like a kind of, like doing example here,

but is there a reason we wouldn't like net income at the top of the cash flow statement in this in this one.

Oh, you've seen the indirect method. I wouldn't do that right now. Okay I'll show you how to that.

Okay. Clay work.

Clay was talking about is seeing cash flow statements, but of a different looking for than this one.

This one is this one in what's called a direct message.

And it just tells you this is where you got cash, is where you spend cash.

This is something we're going to be hammering.

You know, when we think this is this is the thing that we fully understand that you really no accounting.

So there's one winner.

So what I'm going to I say that by virtue of the fact that to get you used to the fact that, um, it takes some real get used to.

Okay, almost nobody does this in practice.

Okay? They know it's they're still trying to tell you their cash flows, but they tell you a different way.

And let me show you what that different way is now these two sections investing and financing.

Those are always the same. So that's just what you brought in by in that by, you know,

investing in stuff and what you took in by borrowing or, uh, issuing shares or something like that.

Okay. Those are just always the same.

But what can be different is this operating statement up here, because there is a rule that says, all right, you got to tell me one more thing.

You just told me this to the financial statement person that.

The income was 12, 1750. But you told me, and you know, how did I get that?

Well, I had some theories and stuff to get that right. But there's something up here I didn't have to have any theory to get.

And that is cash changed by 1158 over three.

There's no accounting to that. There's only counting.

We only have to go count that number. Just be careful.

That's the only number we have that we can really count.

Everything else I've created has been this story with a.

I have a value, you know, a model for how it very rare that that.

So to tell that accounting story I put in I brought a lot of stuff a lot of interpretive things in there.

What didn't I interpret that guy? Right, cash.

You could always just count cash. So there's a requirement that says, okay, now you got to tell me why is that number different?

Then. That number.

Why? Why is your income different than your cash flow?

You have to explain that. So let's look and see what how that would go.

Uh, so this is what's called, uh, a.

Oh, boy. Well, uh uh uh, I'll put it in over here.

I really I don't like to indicate that things are in some sense kind of parallel, but.

Which. I have to do what's called a reconciliation.

That is, I have to explain the difference between net income, which is 12 1750.

And cash flow from operations, which is 115803.

I have to explain that. You tell me why that is?

How did you get there? No. I really like this, the way it's unfolding today.

Things. Things like this unfolds differently in every class,

but I'm glad we're taping because I'm going to take the stuff because this is working better than I ever thought that it could, because.

You know, I think what's really hitting me today is how much baggage we brought in when we did the present value calculations.

You know, that baggage was we have a certain model of how things are going.

That's a model. That's a theory we have, um.

Uh, you know, certain we we made certain assumptions to do that theory.

Right. Like, we can borrow and land at the same rate and all that stuff.

We brought a lot of baggage into telling our story. To get the 1000 to 1750.

Right. I mean, you had you should be thinking this is pretty abstract, this kind of high flying stuff.

And this is actually the kind of thing that Irving Fisher, the accounting or the economics professor here.

And he just figured out how to, you know, think about.

Okay, so how to do the reconciliation? Well, if I start with that income, then I have to do a bunch of I have to say something.

I've got to end up with cash flow from operations 115803.

Okay. So what is a reconciliation? A reconciliation is tying together two numbers.

You know that, you know, two numbers are computed maybe, and say, well, what are all the differences.

This is what you normally see when you see a cash flow. Statements like Claiborne's asks about that.

So you see something that starts with net income. Okay.

Why is it different from an accounting for you?

So so what explains the difference between these two things?

I want to tell you right now that the difference is 5947.

And. The at $59.47.

Right. So you can get that just by subtracting. But I know it for several different reasons.

What is that number? 5947.

Yeah. Um, well, 1217 minus what's being paid out in the bond each period, which is the.

Yeah amount that the initial that bond value grows.

Correct. That's what it is. But I this is what's weird about this.

But where is it in the accounts. Where, where could I point to in the other balance sheet accounts and say there it is.

There's only one other balance sheet account we have. Not another chapter.

What about sheet? That. So the balance sheet is cash.

And bonds, right? That's all there is.

And so the answer to the riddle has to be in the body cavity.

Yeah. Look, we started off with bonds on the books at 50,000.

And our story said you actually earned more interest than the cash you got.

And so the difference. This is the change in fog value.

Now look at that. But that statement tells me it says okay.

This is the cash you got. This is what you told me.

Value is how. Don't you tell me that story. You wrote up the bond.

Right. I increase the value of the bond. We'll get to the bookkeeping mechanics of all this.

There, actually. You know, like I said, this is like super high level.

We're going to go back and do it in the bookkeeping mechanics.

And in many ways you can keep a lot of this straight or that because when we do everything I mean, I'm just sort of freewheeling.

I don't have an accounting system set up for 165, wouldn't you say?

I should do that over the weekend? I should put it in the accounting, um, software that we're going to use.

And then so you can work through and see items that way.

But the whole accounting systems of debits and credits and all that stuff is to actually do this without getting lost if you're lost right now.

That's fine. You would be lost. Right.

We need a system, especially. We've only got very little going on here.

Right? What happens when you get at it? Imagine Yale's financial statements.

Oh my God. You have tuition revenue. You have grant revenue.

This is just. This is just how stuff comes in, right? You have, um.

Uh, well, I guess they I guess they probably have rental revenue from the land they own and rent to stores.

Right? Uh, they have earnings on the endowment, which this kind of thinking applies to.

Right. So some of what Yale owns, they're just doing exactly what we're just doing right here within their accounts.

Right. And, uh, what about their expenses?

Well, they pay me. They pay upkeep, the classroom.

That. I mean, it's mind boggling the details, right?

So we really better what we're really what we're going to do is we're really going to use the heck out of.

All of this structured assets that I raised, despite the damage, you know, were really going to use the fact that we classify things into assets,

liabilities, equities, and it all has to be linked and nothing can just disappear or nothing could come in from heaven.

Right? So I couldn't say. So this is a paradox up here.

I couldn't say that that was income where that's the only cash you got.

Unless I did something to some other account. This is telling you what I did.

Right. So that's the whole system of financial statements that, um, you when you go to the world,

you will hear a lot of really dumb stuff, like what's more important, the income statement or the balance sheet.

This is stupid, right?

It's a system that all works together to convey information.

And the more you know about how it works together, the better off you are, right?

So, you know, when I was learning this, I learned one thing at a time.

You learn about the balance sheet, and then you learn how to do the income statement and then see all these things that seem to be disconnected.

And that's still the way most people learn. Accounting is a disconnected bunch of stuff.

It's not. And and then thinking that this disconnected stuff is very bad.

Okay. It's very bad because we have to make all the connections.

Then I wish when we start doing the accounting.

Like for Apple, we talked about, you know, where they have their market to book capital, which is like, I don't know, 50 something or whatever.

Well, if we recognize something then it's going to go into the system.

Once we recognize something, it's got to go into the assets liabilities equities framework.

And once it goes in, it can't just disappear a piece at a time.

You have to tell a consistent story about what you're putting in and a consistent story about what you're putting out.

Maybe you know what you're pulling out. Maybe you don't have all that information.

Maybe it hasn't worked out yet, but has it all worked out yet? How am I going to change what the stock market does based on what's happening?

Right? They don't have to fit anything together. If you think the stock's undervalued you say one going to buy it.

You don't have to offset. You don't have to make an offsetting entry in any way.

But when we keep records we're not allowed such freedom right.

Yeah. This might not be the greatest question, but I was wondering why the 4158 isn't in the expenses column because.

So that's that's it's interest income to us. Okay. They're paying us.

They're paying us that amount. It's on the government's expenses.

Okay. Yeah. So we're doing it for the government. But no, we're doing it for large.

So this is another huge thing we'll have to straighten out. It's like, from whose perspective are we doing this?

This is very confusing. And let me tell you, I just leave you with this and we'll come back next week.

The reason people get so one reason my my theory about why people get so confused about debits and credits is because any time the bank talks to you,

they're not talking to you from your point of view. They're talking to you from their point of view.

So when you deposit money in the bank, I deposit $50 in the bank.

They say what I present in your account? Yeah, they did, because they have a liability to me.

Right from my point of view, I have a receivable back from them anyway.

Don't worry, we'll get we'll get all this straight. But that that's going to be very important.

And exactly who we're doing the accounting for. Okay.

I'll see you in.

