[Auto-generated transcript. Edits may have been applied for clarity.]
We do have a master file available for that.

Then I can because I look at the parts of my and they change the problems or something that, you know, didn't did everything I share that way.

So then everybody has it. Um, and then it's like, um, but it's a little update.

Yeah, exactly. Yeah. Yeah. So, so also, if I copy the canvas course next year, um, you know, if I keep the same, it's a little delay.

If it keeps some of the same links, then, uh, pretty soon I don't have to worry about next year.

Danny, did you try it? Uh oh, I need to. No. It's okay.

Sorry. I have somebody, like, three hours, so I was focusing on that. No, you shouldn't, because nobody.

Somebody tried it, and I didn't know if it was you. I got to announce that, uh, I can actually try it this afternoon.

No. No worries. I'm fine tuning. Uh, it's, uh, I was interested.

I'm excited for it because I've used the, like, just, like, chat, like regular,

uh, think sometimes for, like, finance concepts, and it's very helpful.

Uh, yeah. That's an issue. It's. How helpful is it?

It's like crazily helpful. What are we doing today?

Recording studio. Okay. And I'll show you.

Then another window. Another window.

Okay. Because I built this, this, this.

Oh. What's going on here?

There's this idea that there's a flood of stuff in here.

Which was classified. I'm sure. SharePoint.

It's. I'm a little surprised.

We try again to the wrong time.

No, I mean, you're right. There's reasons to.

Okay. You.

Know better. You try on.

You go to full screen. You go to this.

And now see, I can't wait. You know, I don't know because it's a windows machine.

I don't know that I use the keyboard commands either on Excel, but since it's the real keyboard, I don't really know if I can do that.

I mean, it's a. I guess.

No. I'm right. I guess. You're right.

Yeah. Backspace.

Delete. Backspace. Okay.

Okay. What's the key of the loop. So let's say that you know let's say.

First. They start here. Okay, so I didn't lose.

Everybody get the problem set. So we have to wait for us, right?

I think this is good news for everyone.

We have it to ease. I think it's fine.

Oh, yeah. Okay. Um. Boris is our one.

Two. Yay! And he's here. Finally! We've got it.

Besides the. Uh, you don't have to admit this, but somebody's chatting with the chat bot appear to be a little less than successful.

Uh, that's maybe something I didn't teach the chat bot.

My explanation of debits and credits and the flows.

So with the chat bot, somebody was asking about debits and credits.

And how does this work in the chat bot answered with kind of the standard answer.

Yeah. You know, from wherever Claude gets his information.

So that's kind of cool. But if I think it's going good, what should happen is, uh, you know, if you and anybody that interacts with it,

I can have the transcripts downloaded and have to care about the individuals.

But I can say, like what? What questions have been people been asking, what do they have trouble with?

What it is. It's unbelievable tool I think. Okay. So now we're really going to take off.

Right. And we're going to do the uh, some things we don't do the accounting identity and we're just going to start, uh.

This is. This is like. Our push ups or something, but.

This is just a we're going to go through about a month of pushing things around,

or a few weeks of pushing things around so that we really understand how accounting systems work from the inside out, and then we'll pop back up.

Okay. So, uh, before I do that, just to give people time to get over here, um,

the what what we're what this is all about is compiling a set of financial statements.

And some of the homework problems have been looking at some of these.

The point of this is, by the way, if you just go in and look at some of these financial statements to see,

you know, what's on about what's on their balance sheet, what's the income statement and so forth.

That'll that'll do you good. Okay. There's a million of those on the web, but this is what you're going to find.

We use the accounting identity at a point in time to make up a thing called the what we call, I call it a balance sheet.

Uh, now I know why.

Okay? Because a lot of the official name is statement of financial position.

Well, I'm going to show you some examples.

Um, uh, so did you do did you look at Nathan's Famous yet?

I can't remember any of it. Okay, so what are the what are the things you go through as Nathan's Famous, the hotdog people?

We'll come back to this name, financial position.

This is a physics analogy that you don't really want to use. Okay.

So really what we're doing is we're checking out our accounting identity.

Have we preserved it? Okay. And so, uh, that's at a point in time and, uh, yeah.

So I said I recall the statement of financial position in a for profit.

When you look on that statement, that balance sheet,

you're going to see assets and you're going to see liabilities, and then you're going to see equities.

So assets what are those benefits obligations. What are those obligations to pay in the future.

So we talked about this when we went through the that big list of things.

So promises and obligations that you have to fulfill in some way and equities I will try

to get you to say that's the difference that why do I why am I so crazy about this?

Because we use the same system for not for profits.

So what do we have? Well, not for profits have assets.

They have liabilities. They have obligations to pay people like I don't think they paid me this material.

And so now I'm in the middle of the month. So they owe me. And but they don't have any owners.

It doesn't make sense to talk about what's so left over is somehow the value of the company is on hold off.

We don't have to have any of that balance. We just call it net assets.

And the trick is in both equities and net assets.

That's a place we're just going to convey information about what we've reported, okay.

Information about what we've recorded.

And in a for profit you're going to see what we we're interested in distinguishing is did we record something that,

uh, record something that was just contributed by the others?

You know, like when we set up, uh, 165 women associates or are recording something that's a result of operations of the entity trying to create value.

That's what we reported when we recorded interest revenue in, what, 65 Whitney Associates.

Okay. So that's that's what we use the equity section for to distinguish basically when we're when we recorded this, uh, where to come from.

Okay. Before and not for profits, they do a little a little bit differently because they don't have equities.

They have net assets. But we hope to find out and I'm sure you'll be given many, many, many, many opportunities to give to Yale.

And then you're going to have a choice. If you do that you can give it in two ways.

You can you can give. We give gifts in two ways.

One of them is people just say, all right, I want to generally support the university.

You know, here's a thousand bucks. That's a that's a gift without any restrictions on.

Right. But you could also say, oh no, I'll give you this thousand dollars, but you have to use it for scholarships for, you know, whatever XYZ.

Okay. Now that's, that's got of donor restriction. So that's what we use the right hand side or the net assets side to convey.

We use the net asset side to and not for profit to convey.

Well how are we doing on meeting people's restrictions. Okay.

That's information that's appropriate for the type of organization in this.

Okay. So, uh, information's on the right hand side.

Oh. Assets. What are those? Those are future benefits or benefits.

I guess they struck the word of the future from the from the official thing.

FASB Financial Accounting Standards Board definition. But who cares?

Benefits. And it's got to be owned or controlled by the entity.

So this is a big deal for you know who was it.

All right. So there's a car sitting out there in the Lion Club parking lot is in mind.

What does that mean? Does it or is it owned by by consulting business or whose is it?

It's got to be the entity that that I'm reporting on. And there has to be some evidence of it in that we usually say arising from past transactions.

But, you know, the most I should change the slide out and say, you know,

that you have enough evidence that it exists, that you're willing to record it.

What are liabilities? Those are sacrifices. They're probably future sacrifices.

Obligations again, some evidence of it okay.

Equity that assets or go okay, uh, you know, here's sort of the standard definition of assets and liabilities.

Now, I don't know, for the people who are, who are uh, it may be more political science or social things.

You're going to recognize what starting to go on here is kind of like law.

Okay. So what happens?

What would happen if my wife suddenly gets sick of me and kills me?

Okay. And she's arrested for it. What she charged with.

Murder. Murder? Maybe.

Right. But let's say murder. What's that?

What distinguishes that from, uh, manslaughter?

You know she meant to kill me. Okay, well, we don't stop there.

Well, what kind of murder? Okay. Did she just lose her temper?

And finally had it with me. That's probably like second degree.

I don't think there's 32nd. This works differently with Burns.

The smaller the number, the worse. Okay, so that might be second degree murder.

Oh. Did she. Did she plan this out for a long time and catch me?

That's first degree murder. Okay. So how do we how do we make those categories?

Well, they're just kind of arbitrary. You know, I told the story so a you'd remember it.

But B just because it's kind of, uh, lazy.

Oh, exactly. Uh, you know, exactly what we how we make that distinction.

Okay. But so this kind of exercise, something happens and we start classifying it.

Is it an asset? Is it a liability? And so forth.

It has that same flavor of a kind of human imposed rules and an accepted, uh, uh, accepted definitions.

Okay. So that's all there. I don't know, equity the difference.

And I realize it's frustrating for me just to define something as a difference and not say in here.

But keep in mind that once you have two of these things, the third one is determined.

Once, once I have assets of liabilities, I don't have a choice about how much is going to be there for victims.

Right. That's that's, uh, determined.

So I don't know. Of course. Did I introduce you well enough? Boris is going to.

He's going to make an announcement with sign up sheet. I've already posted.

You posted it, right? So you you can talk to people if they want or whatever.

Uh, my name is glorious. I am senior ATL. I had a major in economics and mathematics.

I took this course my first year. This was a very, very nice course and I enjoyed it very much.

I hope you will enjoy it too. And, uh, I posted the announcement.

I have an email. I also posted there a full number and like you don't, I'm always answering the email.

But if someone just like you have a trouble getting my office hours so you can, uh,

schedule which you can schedule a link which is posted for Google Calendar appointments,

just like shoot me a text or you have a trouble finding me there.

Like shoot me a text for easier communication. Thanks.

Same thing for me. You can still talk to me any you know, email me, text me, whatever.

We'll have office hours in person by zoom, whatever you want.

Okay. Uh, now, this is, like, the most important figure of possibly.

Well, maybe my whole life I don't know about yours, but, like.

So this is showing you how things, how we're going to do the financial reporting over time.

We actually produced kind of a web of financial statements.

We don't just produce one. So we produce we produce balance sheets and points in time.

And then there's also a bunch of statements that try to explain how did you get from one balance sheet to the other?

Okay. So the statements that I'm going to show you are explanations of the changes.

Right there. Explanations. How did you get from here to there?

Well, we you know, and 165 Whitney Associates, we, uh, one of the things that happened was time passed, and we earn interest income.

And one reason that our balance sheet changed that,

that we ended up with more total assets at the end of the period than the beginning of the period was because time had passed.

We had an investment in permanent source revenue. Okay.

That's a that's that's an example. And we also saw an example of something that what that by the way that that so called

the income statement helps explain why retained earnings change on the balance sheet.

We also have a statement that explains why the cash change. That's an interesting because cash you don't have to do any fancy accounting for right.

If you just count it. Hopefully you just add it up.

And there is there is still some there are still ish issues about what you count as cash for example, is Bitcoin cash or an investment?

I don't. I'm not sure that's completely been settled yet. And how we're going to do it.

Okay. But still. Um. And then the statement of changes in shareholder's equity says, okay,

the difference between assets and liabilities changed and increased or decreased over the period.

Why did you do that? Okay. We do the same thing with nonprofits on this thing.

Just but we don't have quite the same. You know, they don't they're not trying to do things to earn a profit,

but they're trying to have they have a bunch of activities that maybe serve their beneficiaries or whatever.

So we don't have an income statement. We have a statement of activities, net assets.

Again, it's trying to explain how did their balance sheet change from one point to the next.

Notice I said how did their balance sheet change? I didn't say how did they really change.

Right. Something could have happened. Oh, I don't know. They discovered a gold mine in their property.

Okay. Then it dramatically changes the economics of their situation.

But if we don't, if it doesn't pass the recognition test, it's not going to be on their financial savings.

Okay. Not good in it. So we have to understand that we got this big filter called recognition.

And stuff happens all over the place. And we're filtering out and some things we write down and some things we don't.

Okay. Uh, all right. I did that already. I'm not gonna do it.

Okay. So record stands business. Oh, no.

Wait. I've got I'm going forward. I need to go backwards. How do I go backwards?

Okay, Rick at Stanford. So let's just start doing a problem that this is, um, account learning.

Accounting now is like, uh, experiential in this sense that you have to just do stuff, right.

You have to do stuff. You can't watch me do it. You can't just leave at the end.

You gotta you got to, uh, you got to do something.

So I'm going to do something. Okay?

Now. Uh, as soon as I get everything cooking here.

Well, that's just what you're going to see.

Hang on one one second. Sure, I.

Oh, did you do? Gotta love this.

Know. She.

Now. Um. Some of the problems you're going to do.

I hope I have time to correct these. Um, there's what's going to happen is if everything we input to the system is going to be here in the journal,

and then it's going to populate out to the financial statements, okay.

Nothing's going to be on the financial statements. That doesn't start in this journal.

That's a key thing. It's a key thing. Everything like any financial statement that you see in anywhere, I don't care if it's Amazon or whatever.

There's a journal entry that got it there. And every time they make a journal entry that journal entry has to balance.

Okay. So so uh, so stuff is going to go here and it's going to appear on financial statements I

think today I have and eventually you'll have the automated financial statements.

Where would I put something in the journal that puts it in the right place? But that's not where you want to start.

Okay. Where you want to start? Uh, I've never been able to figure out a really good, um, format for this, I don't think.

Or maybe I'm just explaining it incorrectly. But while we're doing this, let's let's look at, um.

Uh, what you're going to see for a while. Do do do do do do.

Anybody. Anybody got. Oh, there it is. So what you're going to see for a while.

Is hopefully the silver. Unhide.

So you're going to see this on the Financial Statements Builder tab.

And uh eventually.

So what I've done is automated all the financial statements because I'm going to show you how it goes.

What you're going to have to do at first is set the problem up right is actually build the financial statements from down here.

So in other words, if I'm an if I'm going to build a beginning balance sheet, what kind of stuff's on here.

Current assets. Let me see what kind.

Um, uh, I've set this up so that every, every accounting items in here, uh, let's say, uh, accounts receivable.

And then you put an amount in and then it'll show up on the financial statements. Let's do that.

So just for the fun of it. In fact, let me show you the whole.

Now it also these are these things are shared with you.

I will, uh, share it. So if you look on your own computer, if you open the file, you'll be able to see, um, it on your screen.

Maybe if you open the file, you might want to look at something that I'm not looking at here.

That's okay. The only thing you have is if you if you open the file and go into it, it'll start showing.

Because I'm showing the web version, it'll it'll start showing your where you are okay as well.

But let me go back down here just for a second and show you some more about the building.

So the idea of this is to give you some exercises.

That, uh. Some exercises that help you learn the structure of the financial statements.

Okay, here we go. So for example, when I, when I select over here, uh, beginning balance sheet immediately over here,

uh, in the statements, it'll be something that remind you of what that is.

Oh that's assets liabilities and equities. Okay.

If I pick up an income statement. That thing pops out.

Oh, that's revenues and expenses. I can keep going, but let's don't keep going.

Right. Let's go back to, uh, the income statement and say, what am I looking at?

Oh, I'm looking at. The current assets.

Oh, when you see current assets on an income, stay on a balance sheet.

This is what it. Oh, the asset section. It popped out the whole asset section.

So we're going to classify the assets as corona or non-current.

We'll talk about what what that's about.

You know if I, if I said instead of current assets I said current liabilities, it would have popped out the liabilities section.

See what I'm trying to do.

So I'm trying to give you something that where you can learn the structure of these statements just subconsciously without having to,

you know, beat it down and write it down 50 times and all that stuff.

You know, my thought is if it just appears before you at the right time, that it'd be great.

The wider the screen you have, the better.

Uh, if you have two screens, it's really good because do you know, you know how to open Excel in two different windows, right?

So you ask it to produce, you go to view here.

You ask it to produce a new window right here.

And it'll help in the same file. And you can put that one on a different tab.

Okay. Um, again, I'm still not completely happy with this pedagogically because it's the best.

I've gone through several iterations, but it's it's a little it still seems to me to be a little awkward,

but I like the idea of when you pick something like a statement, it shows you what's on there.

Yeah. You know, then you you just kind of get into it. Okay, cool.

And then once you're once, we're, um, you know, we're you're really up and running and you kind of understand what,

you know, what's on the statements, then, uh, which you'll just be able to automate them like this.

Okay. And it's a it's a it's a choice.

So if you think you still need more practice, you just don't automate it and build a bit of, you know, the hand carry sort of the stuff.

But, you know, pretty soon you won't be needing that at all. Okay.

So that's the financial statement builder. That's the thing about this software that most gives people the most trouble.

Notice there's also. A chat bot.

That's the user manual for this thing. Okay.

That chat. Uh, I think I the user manual is probably available on that on the resources page.

Somebody can look it up. That's a word or a PDF you could look at if you want.

But uh, the talking user manual uh will help you use that will help you use the software.

If something happens, you don't understand what's going on. As long as I have tokens left in my living labs account.

You could just call that agent and say, how do I do this? Or what's that?

And the agent knows the user manual inside out. Isn't this a great thing about, uh, the technology that we have?

Not the speaking part, but how? I knows all the user manuals of everything you want.

Have you have you have you encountered that yet?

If you have any problem with any device, you just start asked ChatGPT or one of some of them, how do I or any of them how to fix it?

And, uh, it'll it'll have to do it right instead of going to the manual, which I never did anyway.

And I kept them all hallways. You know, there was a stack of books somewhere that that I forgot that they were there and blah, blah, blah.

Okay. So, uh, so this is how we're going to, um, do it.

Okay. And is this the full screen view?

Oh, yeah. Yeah. Okay. Here. Okay. Now, I got to go back now.

Now let's start wading through the problem, and I'll show you how that is done to to return.

This is what I want. What you see here.

And I'm going to go into full screen again.

Okay. So what you can do is first thing you start by, uh, picking a transaction number.

Okay. So like I'm going to start with one. Okay.

Now the dropdown list shows you that's. So this thing's got 16 different transactions.

Okay. One. They issued some common stock.

For cash. See that? Am I get it?

All right, so forget the software for a minute. Listening. Anybody going to recognize this?

They issued common stock and got cash. Yes.

Yeah. I'm going to. If I don't recognize this, we're we're in trouble.

Right. Okay. We're in trouble. So I'm going to recognize it here.

Let's make it big. Now, what you could do is you could go to the the analysis help and work your way through the whole thing.

Right. So that's why the analysis help is there. Like, what am I doing?

I'm doing transaction number one issued common stock that I did.

The first thing I have to do is decide whether to recognize it.

Yeah I'm going to recognize it. No I'm not going to recognize okay.

Oops. Uh, wrong. Mr. Potato Head is I like to say that's that's not cash has been received and an ownership share has been created.

Oh, yeah. Okay. Then it explains to you why you're doing what you're doing.

That's the most important part.

The most important thing as you use this analysis tool is not to get the answer is to understand why you're getting the answer.

So what this little tool does, unfortunately I have to apologize for you.

It starts putting accountant think in your brain. Okay, so this is a counting thing.

Um, here are the steps, blah blah blah blah blah. Okay.

Anyway, and then, you know, you go on, just like we did before you try, you can analyze it.

Uh uh, well, I should do it this way, right?

So, what do we have going on here? Well, assets are going up by 110.

And anything else goes up by 110. I don't know well.

All right. And then you can work your way through all the way down to the journal entry.

All right if you want to. So there's basically no reason not to get everything.

You can also check the journal entry and see. Right. So you work your way through these things.

All right. So so let's so let's those start recording. So this is transaction number one.

And when I select a when I select the transaction number over here it lights up an area for me to to make in it.

So what do we want to do. Well again I've designed this conceptually.

So the first thing you want to think about is what kind of account is affected.

Well cash is what an asset account is okay.

Which asset account cash is it increased or decreased.

Well I already said debit right. They got in cash.

So what you said last time increases in assets or debits.

Things flowing in go on the left.

That's debited okay. How much?

110. Okay. Forget the blue thing.

We'll come back to it. Right? Now, notice this little red guy up here in the Journal.

Oh, there's a couple of things are read right off the bat.

Right. One of the things that's red is in the journal.

We're out of balance. Right? I don't haven't made a balancing entry yet, but it's also the case.

What that would mean if I stopped here, my balance sheet would not balance.

If my assets would be 110 and liabilities list equities would be nothing.

Okay. That's why you have balancing entries. So the statements all work out.

Now in my keep in mind we're doing stuff one thing at a time. Try for Amazon to control billions of transactions.

All handle the side of this with this infrastructure. Okay.

So now. Okay. So what else happened?

You go to the you go to the, um, analysis tool, or you can just think yourself, you know, I always imagined the accounting identity in my head.

And I think, okay, assets are going up. What else is happening? Oh, equity is going to go up.

Now. Uh, this. I don't know, pedagogically.

Is this the best way to do things, but less?

Um. There's no better. There's no better time to introduce this, which is going to be a purely arbitrary accounting thing.

Are you ready? Let's go back to the instructions. So and let's look at.

Um. Oh, it's Rick and Stan business.

It's a for profit company. It's in the retail business.

Okay. And I got. I'm. I guess I'm doing this for three months from September 30th to December 31st.

So it's a quarter, and I'm going to write down all the dollars and thousands they have.

They're just starting off so they have no shares outstanding.

But what I want to call your attention to now, I'm I'm not gonna make a big deal out of this in class.

I just want you to in the course rather. But I just want you to see it because it's an example of some of the little.

Whirlpools. The the that accountants put in for you.

Okay. The par value per share is $5. Okay.

Now what is the par value per share? Oh, boy, I don't know.

Let's see. They issued a 110,000.

They issued 10,000 shares. Okay.

Now this is just what we do. Because I'm your mother and I'm telling you to do it.

I'm going to put in common stock. I'm going to put five.

Now, by the way, you know, you can also do this if you want what I'm doing.

Uh, equals five times 10,000.

You see that the spreadsheet calculate for you know, it.

Uh. It decided. See, this is why I told the guy the change that got the keyboard.

See me because I got an Apple keyboard here.

Okay. Yeah. Um. So what is the par value of a stock.

Well the par value of a stock. Is this the number they write on the you know back when stock was in paper.

It would just be a number they would write on the bottom of the sheet. Okay.

Yeah. Because of CompuServe. Because common stock. Because it doesn't give you the right to any particular payments.

It's not quite analogous to the face value of a buy which which help determine what cash you're going to get.

Not so in common stock, but still people would put something on there.

I think there used to be historical reasons for it.

Uh, the last time I checked in Norway. This is still a reason for it.

It's like, let's suppose if you bought a share of stock, you buy share a stock.

I think this is true. I asked my Norwegian friends in Norway, and it's got $5 par on you and you paid $4 one.

Okay. I think what that means is that the company could come back to you and say, hey, give me another dollar.

Not true in the US. Okay, so.

Or any place I know besides Norway. Okay. Uh.

So what does it mean? Most people will tell you nothing.

I would tell you nothing. One of the world's experts in finance, that was, you know, uh, world renowned, hands down, would tell you nothing.

Our business lawyer, who was a Yale Law graduate business lawyer would tell you, doesn't mean anything.

So we all thought it didn't mean anything. We started a company. Uh, my buddy, the finance guy was very, uh, hopeful.

Very, very, uh. So he he we started a company in Delaware.

We had, uh, we authorized something like, um, how do we do it?

I don't know, uh, a 10 million shares at, uh, or a million shares.

I can't remember what it was. That's. It was $20 million of what the part of started off to be.

Right? Maybe it was a, um. Uh.

A million shares is a big par value. And I'm in my office one day and I got.

I got a letter from the Delaware Secretary of State, and it was a bill for $275,000.

This is a company that we started actually with $10,000. Everybody, because their their franchise fee in order.

In order to get the birth certificate of the company where they broke through in Delaware and their Delaware franchise taxes,

what are the ways they computed it is based on your state and par value. And we had a huge stated par value.

So I didn't know that Steve Ross didn't know that Dave Ringgold or the suburban didn't know that.

Here's our bill. Right. I turned it over and found there's another way to calculate your number.

Your your taxes. And, uh, but like, I didn't do any tax planning.

That depends on how much actual assets you have. I didn't do any planning to kind of arrange for the balance sheet to look the right way.

So I think we still owed them a few thousand dollars. If I if we know that and done it.

All right. 250 bucks. Okay.

So you always have to be concerned that, uh, you know, that some thing could be made to mean something by some rule like this.

You know, that maybe nobody even knows or somebody knows it, but maybe all the people around you don't know.

I would think, by the way, this would be God with ChatGPT or with an app with an AI system.

Right? We would I would the first thing I would do is go in and ask, oh, I'm thinking about incorporating in Delaware.

This is what I'm thinking about it. Uh, what difference does it make with the part of our it?

It would tell me what what I just said, what I had to learn.

Okay, so that kind of routine stuff, uh, that, that sort of silly things we spend energy on,

uh, I think it should be much, much, uh, less of a problem now.

Okay. But, uh, but notice, you know, the balance sheet doesn't balance yet.

I know it has to balance. Okay. So I need 60 more in credit.

Okay? Now it balances, but I have to decide what to call it.

Right. So here we have something where the entry the numbers balance in the entry.

But the financial statements still don't know what's happening because the financial statement wants to know well what else was it.

If you go through the, um, the the the.

Analysis help. You'll find that where we put this thing is in an account called additional paid in capital.

Really? Really. Yeah, yeah. What a name.

It's additional paid in capital okay.

And now our balance sheets and balance is yellow because that means it's in balance.

But it doesn't agree with my answer. So if it agrees with my answer it should.

The bar should be green. So you should know what you're doing okay.

Right.

So if we if we scroll through the balance sheet, we're going to find that we just put, um, this is where I, I don't like the set up so much here.

Uh, because if I go down here, you'll see we also put equities on the balance sheet.

And this is how we did it. Uh.

Okay, so that's how it goes.

Now. I'll tell you.

One thing that happens is whenever we create a different category of things like additional paid in capital,

what if we really we do some really esoteric transaction, we start making the entry and.

There's a piece missing and we can't figure out where it should go.

Well, because I've opened another category here. That's always.

That's one possibility that we could throw it in. All right.

So any time we open an account, especially in the equity section,

that's a place that could absorb any weird bailout thing we need in some very complex there.

Okay, just file that away. Whatever. But that's that's what happens to additional paid in capital.

The common stock account always is. The par value never changes.

But if we wanted to hit equity, some other that chose equity some other way, we would hit additional paid in cash.

Yeah. So if your balance sheet like so like is additional paid in capital like a gain here that

accounts like don't excess money or like Boyce's money for up to like forced balances.

Yeah. I mean what I'm saying is that's that's possible right.

So so if we go through the analysis and we decide if we want to hit equity, okay.

And it's it's not something we want to say has to do with any earned thing, then we can't change the common stock par value.

So we hit the additional paid in capital for it. Right. But you have to get used to it.

I'm telling you this story so that you understand that we got this journal entry, this always balancing thing.

It's a huge help. Just giving you a forewarning of oh, why?

But what if I put everything in and I'm still not out of balance?

Well, that can't persist, right? So whatever we do has to be thrown into some account that fits in.

You know, one of these ends that ends up affecting the balance sheet?

Cool. By the way, we might have to work on this problem more than one day.

Okay, but this is the end of what we just. This is just sort of where we are.

Any questions about that anymore? So all I did and all that was I raised assets and raised equity.

Right. In terms of the accounting identity. Two.

Uh, bought equipment to be used.

For, uh, equipment.

Okay. So go to what's going to what happens here.

One asset comes in. And another asset goes out.

So, boy, this really is massive.

Uh, one asset comes in and another asset goes out.

What comes in. Uh oh.

Well. Property, plant and equipment. When you're doing these problems.

Let's go back to the instruction sheet. We talked about looking at the the information about the entity.

Here's another. You know this is all stuff you have to do.

You should do. The first one down here says review the chart of accounts.

What's that. The chart of accounts is the list of all the accounts that you have to you that you could use in this problem.

And we didn't do that yet. So let me go down.

Oh, here they are. We have these assets cash receivables inventory prepaid non property plant and equipment and accumulated depreciation.

We have these liabilities. We have these equities.

We have revenues. We will talk about this in a second.

This is this because we know we're going to have to make up an income statement.

We're going to set up the records going forward to capture the information we need as we go.

Instead of trying to just capture, go back over everything at the end of the period and try to figure out what the [INAUDIBLE] happened.

You know, it's better if we capture information as we go along.

Again, keep in your mind. Amazon. Yeah, yeah.

Something with a huge volume of transactions. You know, you want to you want to capture as soon as you can where eventually the thing's going to go.

On the financial statements. It's better off if you're better off if you do that when you right away when you record the transaction.

If you don't, then at the end of the period, you got to go back through everything and figure out what happened.

This is bad. Okay. So that's why we're going to use these accounts here.

Revenues and expenses to compile what we're going to call our income statement in a for profit.

They're not going to like they're called temporary because they don't last.

You know, they're used to compile inflows and outflows and then they're zeroed out.

So I think of the temporary accounts like like um, so if it's supposed to rain today and I want to decide I'm going to measure it, what could I do?

Well, I could get a five gallon bucket. I can put it out on my patio.

I got to make sure it's empty first. Right? I mean, it's easier for me if it's empty for first, and then it rains and then I come out the next day.

I get the bucket and I stick a ruler in and say, oh, it rained one inch last time.

I think I'll do this tonight as well. What do I need to do? Throw that water out and put it down again?

That's what a temporary cut looks like. It's always it's zero.

And every time we make up a balance sheet, all the temporary accounts have been zeroed out.

Okay. Then it zeroed out every time a balance sheet sped up.

So what that means is people, you know,

you you can often tell somebody is really that there's no accounting when they'll say something like the revenues on the balance sheet.

No, they don't go on the bench. This is we have to sharpeners to this all this terminology and so forth.

All right. Uh, okay.

So now. Oh and in this problem we will learn.

Oh we're going to get a bigger vocabulary. We're going to use the accounting identity.

We're going to practice journal entry notation. And we're going to use t accounts I don't know that understand that.

Boy we got a lot that we're going to learn here. So you know I feel like I have reviewed the chart of accounts.

So this is just a little checklist for your own process if you want.

Okay I completed it. Um I there are also notes of the financial statements.

Uh. I just want to get you early on.

It used to the fact that whenever you pick up a set of financial statements, you always want to look at the notes.

That's that's a lot of explanation about what goes on. So I just wanted to give you the flavor.

We're not going to end up doing anything with it. But I just wanted to give you a flavor.

This is the kind of stuff you find in the notes, okay.

You know, it tells you what cash is. It tells you what the value inventory is, tells you something about the property, plant, all this stuff.

You'll see other accounts. Okay.

So. Well, the amount seems pretty clear, right. So I'm back.

Um. There is.

This is. Process is also set up where I could start doing something and leave my work and come back to it.

Without sort of loss, right? I see.

I put the property, I put the account. Title property, plant and equipment in.

And we put it in the amounts or whatever. It doesn't say they bought it for 60,000.

Okay. And then how did they get it? Yeah.

No. Let's see. I forgot the keyboard layer.

This is ridiculous. Uh, they pay cash for it.

Okay, now my balance sheet stays in balance. And look at what happened to my assets over there.

I have reflected the fact that we brought in cash, and now we're changing the mix of assets.

Yeah. Can I ask why the cash goes in the second line and why what?

Why cash is in the second line of row 14 versus over here.

Yeah. Like how come it's okay. Not all in the same row.

And how do we determine that? Oh. Journal entry notation.

Glad you asked. Right. So you're going to notice that I am very picky.

Not. It's picky at first. Now it's just drilled into me to even think about it.

All the debits I write first and all the credits I write second.

Okay. And what that is, is a very much of a visual help when you start getting complex, complex things.

I don't have mics. I don't have them all mixed up.

I could have a journal entry to have ten debits and 15 credits, and imagine what would happen if I just pile those all in together.

Just sort of. It's going to be ridiculous, right?

So I just made that habit.

Not that I'm naturally a neat person. You know, if my wife really did worry, it's probably why.

Okay. Just a year. 50 years, 57 years.

That's enough. I'm of your mess. I'm not that messy, but I'm not really that neat.

But about this, you know, I'm like, uh.

Because that. What's the pattern is there? Your brain doesn't have to think about that anymore, right?

Pattern. Oh I'm sure. Debits I'm sure. Credits for me. Okay.

So organization of your work. That's that's that's key.

Now it used to be key because I actually do this stuff.

Right. So when you're writing everything down on paper and everything, that used to be a key thing.

Now. It's only it's it's not that important when you do it, because I could put this stuff in any order I want here.

And the program. I wrote the program so that it. It'll figure it out for you.

But what'll happen is your ability to process it will get slowed down if you don't have a standardized for.

Right. So everything we're doing here is trying to have a system that gets us information

about complex things and high volume things as precisely shortly as possible.

You know, I'm sure you're probably feeling this way now if you're feeling overloaded now, information overload there.

Yeah, right. Accounting is all about situations in which we've got information overload.

And the last thing we want to do if we have information overload is try to is go through and restore everything by definition.

You just want to have a standard practice. This is how I do it. I'll say this inquiry the other way around.

If the credits are around first then the debits five okay.

Second thing the indentation. Right.

So debits I use a journal entry notation.

To reinforce the fact that, oh, things are coming in to the T account on the left.

They're coming in on the left and going out on the right. Yeah, I got to be careful about this because it was a liability.

That means a promise is going out. Okay? Cash is coming in.

A promise is going out that. That's why the indentation. It drives me crazy now because a lot of, uh, textbooks and so forth.

Stop using it. They'll put all the account names in a row, and then they'll they might indent the numbers, but you can't.

But then you have to say, oh, that one goes with this one. Is that why you do that?

You know, there's a wonderful notation that's worked for 500 years.

Why would you think you want to reinvent that? Why would you think there's not 10 million things that that this is good for is survived 500 years.

All right. So, you know, some of my accounting colleagues and probably here in other places,

think that you should teach accounting without doing any debits and credits. And with that journal entry notation, can you do it.

Well, yeah. Why would you do it? How arrogant do you have to be to say a 500 year technique?

Oh, I'm not going to tell. I'm a good teacher sitting just just in saying.

Yeah. So one more follow up. Uh, I'm sure people might know this, but I was wondering if cash,

if credit and debit are in assets because with cash in the credit account, it's in like the asset section, but it's going out.

So yeah. What is um what is assets and what assets can come in and they can go out and liabilities could come in.

They could go out when we make a promise and we're going to call it coming back in when your promise has been fulfilled.

So it's like they give you your promise back, you know.

So it's like our coupon payments within the bar. We got a coupon payment the government promised to pay us periodically a certain amount.

Right. And it's like when they sent the cash, they also we sent them back.

Okay, here's your problem. Well, actually, literally at a coupon board, we did send that.

We did send the promise back. Your promise was a little piece of paper.

It said you owe us 50 bucks or whatever. And what did we do? We sent that back.

And that's emblematic of sending back the promise of forgiving the cross.

Right. Okay.

So the whole all the debits and credits are because every part of the financial statements can go up,

they can go down, they can come in, they can go out or whatever. Right.

And we have to handle all possibilities okay.

Three. Paid $3,000, uh, for one year's rent of a building.

All right, so you will quickly, I think I encourage you to quickly start putting in the journal everything you know.

Right. So one thing that often is easiest for me, it was always easiest if cash came in or cash goes out, I got that.

Here. Cash goes out by four. Well, okay, now something has to be debited by four.

What is it? Well.

Well I'm going to. Oh three. Sorry. Got the wrong.

Now notice I could have a balancing injury. Could look fine. Just wrong.

Okay, this one's wrong and inconsistent. Now I'm right.

Okay. So the account, the accounting statements you look at will always balance as my point.

They may not be right. But thank God you don't have to look at things that can't possibly be right because they don't even balance.

That's. It's a big deal. Okay.

So if you go through the analysis, I would think of it this way.

When you when you spend cash, you could we could always think that we bought an asset.

Did we use it? I don't know. Let's go look at the instructions again in the chart of accounts and see what our choices are.

Okay. Well, they have a thing here called prepaid rent as an asset.

That sounds good. Then there's something down here called rent expense.

That's the rent that value the rent that we used up. Okay.

So I would say if you can go through and analyze all these accounts, which you don't want to do right now is, uh, those are our two possibilities.

But, uh. I'd like you to think of it.

If you think of it in, you know, kind of kind of what would happen in real time.

Well, first you get an asset. At this stage.

At this stage, I want you to think of it this way. First you get an asset, and then later on, if some of it's used, we'll figure that out.

Does that make sense? Are you having fun yet?

Is I always when I start doing this? And this time even more so I'm just.

Yeah, I'm kind of concerned about my mental health because I have so much fun doing it.

You know? It's just satisfying in some strange way.

Okay. Bought some inventory on credit. So again, all these transactions, you know, we had these transactions, um.

Before I bought some inventory.

But they did it on credit. Well, I guess on credit means that they promised to pay.

So a promise goes out. So inventory and asset came in inventories.

That's a debit for 35. And a promise went out.

And that is. Accounts payable.

35. You know what again you might have trouble as you as you go with some of the terminology and everything since there's,

there's a lot of business and commercial terminology in this.

Don't worry. We'll, we'll, we'll just keep that actually gets not so mysterious.

Any problem. Oh, here's a goodie. Borrowed.

Uh. $20,000 at 1% a month.

Interest to be paid annually. Well, if they borrowed $20,000, then I guess cash of 20,000 came in, right?

Now look at what's going to happen here. Right? What went out?

A promise to pay a liability.

Of loans payable 20.

Anybody got any trouble with that? On this transaction, we're just in the.

We're in the same shoes that the government was when 165 Whitney Associates, um, bought the bonds.

Right? The government in that case, the government received cash from us and gave us a promise.

And we had the same problem. What are we going to write down? What number are we going to anticipate the interest?

No. Right. We've we.

The, uh, we did that example in part to set up this kind of thing, because most people,

if you hadn't done this, most a lot of people would say, wait a minute, what about the interest?

Right. What about the interest? Aren't you going to pay back more cash than you got?

Yeah. But if we're tracking value, interest is what?

The charge for using money over time. No time has passed.

Therefore, you haven't incurred any interest cost in that way of thinking.

Right. So you're used to that now because we did all that stuff with the discounting.

Okay. Doo doo doo doo doo doo.

And. Uh, sold inventory.

Cost is that cost 25 for 45. All sales are on credit.

Recognized use temporary accounts recognize revenue now okay.

So this is the first thing that's different than what we'd had before.

Let's before we um, before I dive into the entry, let's just think about it in terms of the accounting identity for a second.

So. 45,000. Now, people owe us that coming in.

A promise come a promise to pay comes in 45.

If you stop right there would say, why would that affect the accounting identity?

Assets are going to go up and equities are going to go up. Well, what did we do to give them to.

Why did they give us that promise to pay? Oh, because we turned over inventory to them.

Right now that that inventory is on our books as an asset of 35.

And why we're here. Well, I'll pick this up again and in the middle of the year.

What you should do is just. You just keep trying these things and going.

And the most important thing is, if you work it through yourself and you work, you know, you'll start, get the hang of it.

Like, um, okay. But we haven't really talked about the tools so much that one does.

So over here on tools. I should show you how it really is for you to start.

At the start, the page looks like this. Okay, so these are a bunch of things that might help you do what you got going on here.

Right. So one of them is what's called a tier count viewers.

And a tier count just shows a particular type of type of a count.

Like, uh, we were looking at inventories and it tells you that.

Well, entry number for. Uh, increased our inventories by 35.

Why? They came in on the left. And that's an asset. Okay.

So if we actually sold some of that and I look at that, you know, right now look at the balance sheet.

If I made up a balance sheet it would have to have inventories were 35.

But but that's not true because some of that inventory doesn't pass the test of an asset.

It's not owned or controlled by us anymore. It's owned by the people we sold it to.

Right. So I'm giving you the very legalistic reasoning accountant.

Think of this. It's like right now, if I made up a balance sheet, I'd have to put 35.

But that would be wrong because 35 is not a future.

All 35 of this is not a future benefit anymore. We gave up.

We don't know why because we don't own it. We sold it to somebody else.

So the inventory account has to also come down.

So when the assets come down, how are we going to balance that.

Go through all the work. Equity is going to go down. Okay.

So that's how revenues and expenses ultimately affect the balance sheet.

And all of that action is going to take place in retained earnings.

Now I don't think I've set this one up so that, that uh so that that happens automatically.

Oh, there's a reason why I want to go through the process with you of how this is actually done.

Um, but it's going to have a little effect on our figures up here, so I can show you how.

Okay. All right.

By the way, if you make a journal entry, you over here like this list, check journal entry number one.

Oh that's right. Journal entry number two.

Well, it agrees with it. It agrees with mine. Okay.

Sometimes we're going to get into we'll get into this. Sometimes we when we take a set of transactions,

there's more than one set of journal entries that would cause the financial statements to look the same.

And there's no rules saying about how exactly you have to do it.

The rules are all about how the statements have to look on the end. Okay.

We'll get to that. But anyway, you can always check your entries. Oh, don't worry about the closing tool, the cash flow tool, all that stuff.

Those two things are the only things you're going to want right now. Okay, so I can.

So I'm going to go over here and I'm going to say okay, I got to record two things for this transaction.

First of all, this record that a promise came in of um.

Uh, um. 445.

Okay. And that's going to increase my equities.

Why does that increase equities? Well because I sold something to someone right.

So what I'm actually now entering is more like a verb than a noun.

Right. It's why did that receivables come out?

Because I sold something to somebody. But just to make things a little more, uh, confusing.

We're going to have a count called revenue, and we're going to talk about it as if it's a noun.

Right? But really, it's why did the accounts receivable come in to us?

Because we sold something to someone. Okay.

And that revenue is sales and 45.

Okay, so now I've recorded the inflow of resources.

Right. And I recorded that separately. Now, have I captured this transaction?

No, because I haven't reduced the inventory yet.

Okay. So what we just did here is a step in accounting called revenue recognition.

That is revenue recognition means what it means. Stuff has happened in the world.

I'm looking and I'm going to formally record something that's happened.

I'm going to use the accounting. I did that only to recognize, you know, it could also have been called accounts receivable recognition, right.

The record revenue. Revenue means yeah, this is going on the other income statement.

Now. Notice I've made balancing entries.

So my entries my entries are all balance of the journal. But the balance sheet that the balance sheet is read.

The reason it's red is because we have set it up.

45 of revenue didn't make it all the way to the equity section.

I'm accumulating that in the income statement. I'm going to push it all into retained earnings all at once.

That's called closing. Wow.

I'd do it too much anyway. This is all by way of introduction. We're going to do this a lot, okay.

Because you can just just to tell you how much is there. So let me, let me, uh, show you how that mathematically how that works.

And then we can kind of quit. Okay. Uh.

So let's look at the balance sheet and the income statement.

Right. The balance sheet has total assets of 210 and and total liabilities and equities of uh 165.

So what's the difference between 210 and 165.

Oh this is cool because this work like that.

Is it just my old eyes or can you not see that's just crazy, right?

You see that? Oh. Thank you. Sure.

You can see. You see? Is it possible? Right. We like. We're looking for trouble.

So anyway. So who has this idea?

All right. I hope this works.

So our total our total assets were 210.

And our total. Liabilities and, you know, like, well, I could've done it this way.

All right. Our total liabilities were 55. Right.

Uh, and so this is going to be, uh, equities have to be one set.

Right. What's happened in the right to ten?

55. In trying to write assets minus liabilities equals equity.

So I think so most of the assets. How much are total assets?

Come on. Rick. 210. Total assets. Total liabilities.

Oh! Oh, I'm out of bat. Of course, the whole point of this is I'm out of balance.

Okay, so, uh, so this is assets.

Liabilities. And I have equity over here. Um, so my equity should be five, uh, one 155.

Right. Equity should be. But what is the equities?

It's 110. What it is now.

110 difference. 45.

Out of balance. Difference is 45.

Oh, yeah, because the 45 in revenue is I haven't pushed it all the way through into the onto the balance sheet yet.

It's just sitting there and reading, uh, the income statement.

This is the way actually people do it. They don't they don't compile financial statements continuously.

They do it, uh, in batch processing mode.

So you so you just gather a crap ton of information's coming in, and you try to make your job as easy as you can.

But then just before you make up financial statements, you have to go through and tidy up and,

uh, do a bunch of stuff to kind of bring the records all up to date. We'll talk about all of this.

Okay. So we'll keep going next time.

Uh, there's some other little exercises that kind of help you build up to this that get you used to the framework,

but there's a lot of stuff going on at the same time, right?

There's a lot of terminology this new and different.

There's a whole there's a whole, uh, quantitative structure, a whole structure of accounting that you're learning how to deal with.

You're learning how to deal with arbitrary rules of your campus, and you don't count that.

Okay. Uh, this is something you have to really pace out, and I'm just showing you that, giving you an overview of that, hopefully to motivate you.

And the only way you can acquire this knowledge is that you have to acquire it.

You can't watch somebody else do it. You can't read about it.

You know, you can't. Uh, I was I was, uh, listening to what have I favorite.

And that's one of my favorite, um, I commentators.

Look this guy up really strange. Nate B Jones is and has a, has a, uh, a Substack.

It's a great. He puts out so much stuff. I don't know, like I said, pretty strange guy.

But what he's pointing out was that with the I would I is going you have to experience it.

He said. It's like riding a bicycle, you know, you you have to start riding a bicycle.

And more than like riding a bike, just also like riding a bicycle.

If you have the tendency to go slow, you're going to fall down, right?

So especially with the pace of change and these things, you just start playing around, experience it, experience it.

And uh, you know, that was his advice for how to deal with I right now.

But I'm telling you, that's exactly how you have to deal with the characters. You have to dive and you have to experience it.

Unlike the AI is not changing that much. So you can kind of go slow, but you but you still have to do it.

Okay, so Monday, anything exciting happening over the weekend?

No. Nothing big. Okay. Well see you.

I grew up. And you know, like I say, you can tap.

I think it should work. You use the link on the class page or the.

It should show you where we are in the problem right now.

Okay. And you can download. If not, uh, it's because I didn't set the time.

Yeah. Okay. But you know where to go with it.

We just it is in Detroit.

And that's the mistake. You should not be the property owner.

Okay? Thank you, thank you. Are you still.

Let's say you said I'm using. And you really have to keep an eye out.

I'll tell you. What I really happy I like, uh.

I think I just got really lucky to get out of the need for change of legislation.

Thank you. Um, so, yeah, I think that was a.

