[Auto-generated transcript. Edits may have been applied for clarity.]
If the computers are with their computer, it seems like we should have the same type of keyboard.

This makes sense to me. Yeah, as I looked down the other day to go, wait a minute.

I mean, I have both, I have a mac in there and you know, I that that's from the look things.

But if that's not taken off, that seems a little crazy.

Yeah. This is.

This is probably my most.

There's something you can think of. That would be good.

That's a good one. I don't I don't care because they can see the big one, but I can't see the small.

It's not apparent. It's not equal. Right. It's not fair. So, uh uh, let them let them make it smaller.

Don't make me try to make it bigger. Exactly. Okay. Let's see.

Introductions in the past. All right.

We'll see to see if this works. Oh my God. See, unfortunately, I'm.

You can you can say this is from like a user. So you can see I his on everything.

I don't come in with anything. We got a PC so we could put it here.

Yeah. Let's see. I know this is with this one open link in the window.

Okay. But now this is. This is another thing I don't.

Yes, I've already signed in to the browser, but then for some reason I have to also sign in to office.

Um. Okay.

If I have to go to security again, I'm not going to be happy that the counter password is correct.

Okay. Thank you.

I got to do it again at once.

No no, no. We're just going to go straight.

We used to find. This.

It. Quite. Different.

Be insisted that. No injuries on the count.

He was. One of those guys.

But from his own country at that time.

Yeah. That's right. Because I was telling you that you write this a little.

I want to say thank you so much for giving my.

Statement. And you. Know, they see both of us as well.

As. And finally.

To the Polish. So that was it.

That's right. It was just. So easy to get, right?

Yeah. Right over here.

So. Right. This is a new one for me. This is here.

No. No way.

This is old movies. That was that.

Okay. All right, that's good.

Yeah. We got to go here. There. We got to go here.

So, see, that's the keys. This should be to.

Just to this.

To the. The right.

Go to at least one.

Right. One must be right wall and one this to be to two.

Okay. Are we know that you don't want. And. I thought I put it up there.

Oh. He's overconfident. Yeah, I got it. Let's see.

What's this? Where is it? Where there is. Uh.

Uh, whatever I do is it's continual screen.

Okay. And I finished my map.

Right? Right. Confident? Yes. Right. Kind of surprised. I didn't see.

That's what I'm saying. Okay.

And then I'm going to, you know. Yeah, I that.

Yeah. You command. Oh no, not that type.

Oh yeah I, I Switzer uh I, I, I do actually center conference presenter right there in Webster center confidence.

That must be this one okay. Right. Confidence.

That must be that one. Left wall. Right wall. To them.

Oh my gosh okay. Sorry. All right. Now we got it almost I that one right there is too big.

All right. Just one okay. This one okay.

Here we go. All right. Thanks. I'll. All right.

So today we have you know there's a lot of stuff we're going to start going through.

And it's going to be a lot different because from now we're not going to we have a we have a mathematical structure.

We're going to fit everything in. So there will be that kind of following things through.

But there's also a lot of different vocabulary words and different classification decision.

You know, it's interesting because I had the same problem. Was it for a long time I only concentrated on the numbers in accounting.

And somewhere about a few months ago, I realized, you know, the words are also really, really important, right?

Because what we do is we put things in different categories and we label them.

All right. So what how would you put in and what the label should mean?

Um, is, uh, both of those are just, you know, they combine to give you the information.

Okay. So, um, but there's a lot of stuff I talked about the pre work course, I think I,

I'm not sure I really actually want to give it to you because a lot of it is already in the learning and counting website.

Uh, I just have to go look. So anyway. Okay, uh, when you go through the stuff, you know, you might I the run rate that I record everything.

And so if you miss something, you can go back and listen to it again and again and again.

Right. Because, uh, this is stuff you have to learn.

Okay. So here's, here's the picture. Very much like, uh, I got the wrong thing up here.

I can't do that. I know I no, no worries.

Anyway. So we're going to what I'm going to do is I'm going to generalize, um, I'm going to generalize the, the 165 Whitney Associates thing.

Um, and we're going to start now. We're going to talk about, uh.

All kinds of different. Well, let's I'll just go ahead and do this one.

It doesn't matter. Uh, Claude actually prepared a nice presentation for me.

Made it a lot prettier. Whatever. Right. Okay, so let's just generalize this.

So we started off with only three parties, and we just talked about trends, transactions among them.

Right. Well of course nobody does anything with only three party with only three parties.

Right. And we also restricted a role for the government. Okay.

So we got to talk more about this right. Okay. So let's talk about organizations in general.

And I'm going to talk about it as if it's a corporation or a for profit not a not for profit.

You have different kinds of things, but that mostly affects the words that I'm going to use.

Okay. So so if you once you have an idea and you know what you're going to try to do with your business,

the one of the first things you're going to need is money. All right.

So we did this with 165 Whitney Associates. We got some people, uh, well, we're going to have different kinds of trade, different kinds of ways.

We we get money. And so we're going to, uh, talk about money might come from I got to, uh,

circles up there because the nature of the, of the transaction between us is going to be different.

You know, money still going to come from a money vendor to us, but what goes the other way?

What kinds of rights go the other way? That's what we have to get into.

Okay. The, uh, organizations have employees.

Uh, they have customers, they have suppliers, they have managers.

Uh, Chancellor did this. I'm asking, why did you separate managers from employees?

Because one of the ways he was determined to be different is that the managers actually supervise all the

also all the contracts that run the they get all the transactions employees were thing they're they um,

they supply their labor, you know, but they don't orchestrate your employee doesn't orchestrate,

orchestrate, uh, all the contracts with the people that you buy, borrow money from.

And finally, you have governance, right? So let's just go through each of these parties and talk about like, what's the what are typical transactions?

Okay. So remember last time we talked about transactions.

And there's going to be adjustments. We're going to consider a lot more kinds of transactions than we have to this point in the course.

In fact, I think the only transactions we talked about were it was basically borrowing and lending and then paying over, over that.

Right. And so the only thing we did. Okay. So that's going to still be part of what we did.

Okay. So money providers what do they provide the entity. Well they provide the entity with buddy.

What do they get back. They get backs certain what I say eventually they get back money.

But the first thing they get back is the right to receive money.

So, you know, these two, these two, uh, arrows, the way I just did it here sort of makes it look like it's all happening at the same time.

No, it could happen at different points in time.

Right? So that's why when we got when we put money in 165 with the associates,

you put the money in upfront and you didn't get paid until 30 years later when the business was going right.

But essentially you were shipping money because you expected or you hoped that money was coming back okay with it.

If people do, if if the nature of the arrangement,

the contractual relationship or the legal relationship along with these money providers gives them a certain kind of right to get money,

then we're going to call it equity. What is that kind of right to get money?

Well, for one thing, if you're an owner, an equity holder, you may not get anything.

Yeah. The company doesn't ever have to pay you anything.

But so? So there's no. You can lose it all.

But think about Bill Gates and Elon Musk and Zuckerberg and these.

There's no upside. No upside cap. So there's no limit to how much you could get.

If you're an equity holder, right? So you're billions and billions of dollars, but you might not get anything.

You're not promised anything. So in fact Apple, Microsoft when they first started they didn't pay dividends for a long time.

They. They didn't pay it, but their share price rose.

If you wanted money, you had to sell your equity. That makes sense.

So? So one certain kind of transaction that's going to involve money both ways.

We're going to call that equity. That has to do with the rights that the money provider sold.

Well what did we did. We weren't as we talked about with 165 Whitney Associates, we were equity holders in what was in the government.

Yeah, we shipped money and yeah, they shipped money back eventually.

But what what was the nature of the rights that we got? Well, we got the right to give to earn interest and that get our money back.

But that's all right. I mean, the government promised to send us the form in which they promised to do that, because the bonds sold.

What is in a discount is when they sent us coupon payments, and those didn't exactly cover the interest costs.

But don't worry, in the long run, the prints the face value return also covered in.

So they covered all the interest cost. Plus give it our money back right.

But if you're a debt holder you're not going to get more than they promised, right?

Nobody's nobody says, oh, let me just I borrowed money from the bank.

I just I just pay it back. That's a little more than that. I have to.

Okay, so the good news is you get your money before the owners get there because they can't pay themselves before they pay off their debts.

Bad news is, you're capped. On the upside, you're you know, you can't you know, you can't earn $50 billion by being a debt holder,

uh, without investing, you know, without having 40 or not.

Right? Okay. But you can't do that with equity, okay?

Okay. Employees, what do they send into the organization?

Well, labor. All right. So I'm doing that right now.

I'm a Yale employee. I've I'm giving or I've, uh, I'm transacting with you, and I, I'm providing services that they pay me for.

Yeah. You know, those kinds of arrangements.

Uh, they're going to pay me. They're going to. I call that what what is my compensation from.

You know, I say that's my salary or wages or whatever.

Right. So you know when.

So when all these things start flying around, we got a label, right?

So if the company sent somebody money, I to say whoa, whoa.

Why? Oh, it's an employee. And you're paying them wages.

Okay, that I'm gonna write that down. Money goes out and wages.

Expenses and. Okay. And this is how this is why learning accounting when you're too young is hard, is harder.

This is an additional feature that's hard,

which is just all the interactions with people in the world that the older you get, the more of them you have.

Um, and, and, you know, you just get used to all these different relationships and, and what we call this okay, managers, what do they do?

Well, they provide managerial services. And you know, you can think of that like labor.

But, uh, typically when we think about managers,

we think about somebody that has more control over the whole or influence over the whole organization than a laborer.

Right. So the dean is a manager of the, of the school, but I'm not.

Right. So I don't get to go set people's salaries and stuff like that.

Okay. And I don't get to I don't get to authorize that many transactions of Yale with other parties.

So Dean can do that. Okay.

So that's as I said, that's what John was intending to do by that, by not just saying manager of supply, labor or the nature of the input.

And what do you get back when you get money and it's salaries, wages, you know,

bonuses, executive compensation you might get this will be a tricky one.

We'll talk about in in a corporation, you might also get shares of stock.

You might get ownership interests in exchange for your labor.

That gets tricky because if you think about it.

So somebody provides managerial services.

What number do we put on that. They get back they get back an ownership claim.

Well what numbers do we put on that. If it's a privately held company this is tough because it's the ownership shares are traded.

But anyway this is a um what we'll get into.

What are the what are the increasing. Complex things will look at situations with kind of less and less clear what numbers to use.

Okay, customers there, things go the other way, right?

You know, you think, well, we ship the entity, ships them goods and services, and back from them comes.

What? Well, money. And what do we call that?

Well, that's the revenue of the company. That's the inflow of money from customers.

We are going to have a special name from that. So when a customer sends us, dollars will account for the dollar.

But then we also want to say, well, why did we get that. Oh well we sold them something.

Right. So, you know, so I don't think I've increasingly that like the word revenue because it makes you think it's a noun.

When really when we're recording it, we're recording. What actions gave rise to this inflow of cash.

You'll see that we go okay. Governments okay.

Of course we ship them taxes. What is it government do for us?

That even the most ardent libertarians, surely.

Unless they're completely nuts. Would would say government should provide certain things.

Yes. Public services, roads and emergency.

Yeah. Economists had one day for this public goods.

Right. And a public good is like you said, something like name police or national defense.

And there a second not a lot of economic theory about what's the nature of those things.

But there are two Big Ten economists in the room that are going to help me out with this, because that kind of changes that.

There are two characteristics. One of them is like, if they defend the United States, I can't say, no, I don't want your defense services.

Right. So there's no way to exclude me from participating in that event.

Right. And I'm sorry in that benefit.

So that's what characteristic of a public good when you when it's something like that that you can't make people say,

well I want $10 of national defense, uh, a market for that's not going to work.

Right. So people say, well, how are you going to government to do that? So what is one thing is you can't exclude them.

I think the other thing might be similar to that, which is that my consumption of national defense,

does it take away from your consumption of national defense?

It's like there's a pile of stuff we're using up. Okay.

So government supplied things to the group of us in some sense.

So how do we determine how much money we set? Uh.

Is it related to the value of the services we consume or metered?

Is it some sort of metered thing? Well, if you go to a national park or something, maybe you pay the park fee.

Yeah. So around the edges with the big things we know.

That the benefits we get from the governmental services, you know, aren't really tied to the payments we make to them, the tax codes.

Based on your income. Okay, so there's still a transaction I'm pointing out, but when we start trying to account for it,

we have a whole different kind of problem than we do with customers or managers or employees,

where it's much easier to think about in a pure and an economic market like thing where you're trading something else.

Okay.

We won't talk much about the accounting for income taxes, and everything we talk about does not have the accounting we do to figure out your taxes.

That's a whole special set of rules that's governed by legislation and tax rules, the tax code.

We're going to talk about financial accounting, which is what you use for financial statements you give to bankers and uh, people like that.

Okay. What do suppliers do? Well, they give goods and services.

We buy goods and services from them, and usually it's with money.

Um, you know what is almost always with money, but not always, right?

So a lot of startups, for example, this really happened in the first ecom boom.

Uh, there are all these startups and of course, usually with a, well, often with a startup.

We'll get into it. You'll see why this is going to occurs. But a lot of startups have cash flow problems at the start.

You know,

they they they're not their operations aren't going enough so that they can sort of run off the flow where the they're bringing in enough cash to,

to cover all the cash they needed to go out. That's not true of startups, right?

You may you may just be developing your product. You don't have enough paying customers.

Okay. And so, uh, you know, people in, uh, Silicon Valley landlords and sometimes would say, uh,

you know, why don't you give me a little ownership in your company in exchange for the rent?

All right. And, uh, that causes a lot of accounting nightmares.

You know, when when a transaction occurs through cash, there's one number we latch on to.

How much cash went from party to party B? So by the time we finish, even probably over the next three weeks or months, you'll be doing that.

You know, I'll give you some information. You got cash went from there to there.

Put that down.

But when people start doing things where there's no cash going back and forth, then we're going to have a real accounting system generally.

You know, we have to put numbers on them by some sort of rules or conventions or back our way into something that makes sense.

Okay. So I'm trying to tell you this. So when you look at a set of financial statements, which you should do, by the way, a lot.

Okay. So every week or every week or when you're doing nothing,

just pull up your favorite company into investor relations and look at their financial statements,

look at their balance sheets, their income statements and stuff like that. You don't have to know everything just right.

Right now you just want to be familiar with like, what's there? What am I being show?

And then you sort of get into it because just like we did with 165 Whitney Associates, there's a structure to the accounting information system.

There's a structure to it. And we saw how it worked actually in 165 when we did it.

The whole thing really there are balance sheets, which is what happens at a point in time.

And then when we put down two balance sheets at different points in time,

we have a lot of other statements that explain how did you get from that balance sheet to that balance sheet.

Oh, way, way is, um, you borrowed money.

You borrowed cash. Okay. That that's something we want to tell people.

Another thing is, oh, you operated and you sold things at a profit.

Oh, that's something that lecture, you could say. Okay.

All right. Now, um.

You know, I just did something. I got a flag for you that, um.

If you talk to your friends and stuff about accounting, they're going to be like, well, that's not how I learned accounting.

That doesn't I don't know. Because people often start off talking about accounting as if everything's literally makes sense.

If we're writing the record of stuff, instead of saying, we're telling a financial story, and here's the rules, we tell the story.

That's a very abstract thing I'm talking about. Right? And so I could do that because you guys are my students, but other places are good.

I don't know what are you talking about? And then. That's okay as long as for a little more.

But then over my life, what's happened is more and more stuff has been brought into the account and shown on financial statements.

You're going to see that some of the the ways we get dollar numbers are different depending on what it is.

We're talking about highway and stuff. So, you know, it's also the case that all of the, um, the double entry techniques we're going to work,

we're going to, we're going to use also work for nonprofits.

How does that happen? You know, I'm telling the story as if their owners.

And double entry works, you'll see a double entry is that works.

How does it work for a nonprofit? There's no orders. I'll show you.

Okay. And the real key is not to get too hung up on the labeling of equity.

Okay. We'll talk. We'll talk about, you know, what is this, you know, really getting us flavor.

Okay. So that's the deal. That accounting system, we got to keep track of all this.

And I just realized we kind of left something out.

So this is these are just all the transactions that the entity engages in.

And it was 65 Whitney Associates we had. A few transactions, right?

165 Whitney Associates loaned the government money. That was one transaction.

I mean, you could think of it as that. And then the government sent us coupon payments.

So there was a bunch of that movement going around, and we kept track of all of that. Right.

But last time I added some different thing, I said, do you want me to also observe what's happening over here in a market for debt or whatever?

And go that information into my account that's not covered by this diagram.

This diagram is is kind of in you know, in the old days we didn't do much of that.

You know, most of what we built into the accounts just was driven by transactions and a few accounting assumptions.

More and more and more over time. We're getting information from other places and using that to change the accounting.

Okay. So we're, you know, keeping track with transactions.

The only problem you have in there is the volume of them and how complex the transactions are, but mostly volume.

Right. So think about a bank. Uh, how many transactions do you think Citigroup has every day?

How many times do people deposit money? Pay bills? In that?

Every frickin day. I don't know, a billion.

It's possible. I don't know a million. Way too low.

All right. Now, you know, back in the day when you had pencils and paper, that was a real issue.

Mean just keeping track of what you get. You have people to push all this stuff around.

When all these things became computerized. Who changed the world the big time?

Why? Because you didn't have to have it. Uh, here's an old story.

Maybe they still do this in some places. Do you ever go, actually go to the bank?

Does anybody go to the bank? I know you do. You're not fair.

Do you guys ever go into the bank? Yeah yeah, yeah.

How many people have never walked into a bar? I would have walked into a bank.

Oh, no. Okay, so you walk into a bank, right? Well, imagine your life if you had to do that every time you wanted a deal with the bank.

Okay. So let's think about it. You would walk in, there would be a person sitting on the other side of the class or whatever.

A teller, that teller had the right to transact with you in certain ways.

You wanted to withdraw money that counted out for you and stuff like that.

Then they had to make a record in every day in terms of paper, stuff like that.

Right. So in econ words, you can scale that business.

But there were, but not nearly as much as you could scale it with.

All of everything is, uh, the records are electronically kept, and you don't have to go to the bank.

You send information because. What is it? A lot of what's going on there is the bank is just processing information, right?

And so if you increase the ability to process information, you you're going to generate a situation where people that are the most efficient

can go buy up the people that are less efficient and their banks grow like crazy.

So what you guys are used to is giant banks, Wells Fargo, Citibank.

This is all possible because of information products, information technology.

It's also old enough to remember two. There used to be branch banks all over the place.

It's hard to out relative when we were young. It's hard to find a bank now.

Could you get that? I don't know. I got to go to. You know.

So how did we. How did we fix that atm?

Right. And that they had an ATM so that just one bank, but a bunch of banks.

Okay, so the information processing technology is a huge driver of, uh, of of the scale of an organization and, um, a lot of other things about it.

Okay. So when we say, all right, in the county, we're going to go get information from other sources.

This is a big deal, right? The transactions of a company.

You know, I started off saying you could get overwhelmed just by the volume of transactions.

That's one thing, right? That. But that's a Monday.

The reason I went into, uh, an electronic data processing is there's a sense in which that's Monday.

That's just sort of recording a simple back and forth. Right.

It's not so mundane to say what information from markets that I could absorb.

Am I going to build into this person's account? That's where the accounting is done.

The keeping track of all the transactions in the back, though. That's the accounting basically.

But the accounting is at this higher level. Okay.

Uh, yeah. I've found it helpful to think about what we're doing, what we're going to do here.

Because, you know, why do you do accounting in the first place?

Essentially, it boils down to complexity.

You know, if you have a really simple like from my own, I did a couple of businesses and they weren't very complex.

I didn't do a lot of accounting. You know, I had to for government for tax purposes.

Why? Well, because there was a small organization or a few of us.

We didn't have to capital assets. Everything was labor. So cash was going back and forth.

We had a few contracts, just a few clients. We'd have huge numbers of receivables.

You know, it's just. This wasn't a reason to have a bunch of accounting reports because the situation wasn't so complex.

Think about Yale, right? Well,

there's more things happening and more stuff going on at Yale every minute

than any president of Yale or provost or whatever could possibly comprehend.

Right. You're you're overwhelmed with data in that sense.

You know, this the dimensionality of the data space is just way too big to me to be dealt with directly.

So what do we do? We have a way of taking these this complex thing and distilling it down to a human size.

The pieces, if that's what accounting does. Right in the end.

Now, this is a hard thing, is a hard thing to get a sense of when you're learning accounting,

because you have to learn it a little piece at a time, okay, you got to do that.

So just go in. Don't worry about it. You worry about it. You know you're going to we're going to do transaction by transaction a piece of the time.

But you have to realize that all the the system we're talking about is really useful when it's applied to an extremely complex underlying environment,

or at least one that has so much information that nobody can keep track of all the details.

So there's certain things we're going to do that might seem odd if you just do everything,

you know, if you just if you had a giant photographic or you just sort of knew everything.

I started off 165 Whitney Associates with that. When I ended up, the cash ended up where I got added up in the investors and got different numbers.

Okay. And we decided, oh, we can't have that.

So the first thing you did was impose a restriction on me.

You can't give me lists of things that are in or that are inconsistent.

Thing number one. Don't even bother bringing me a list.

It's inconsistent. Start off with the consistent. Start off with a consistent set of records and then we'll get into what they mean.

But don't even bring me something that's not consistent. I know that's wrong.

Okay. So that's what we do. So it's very helpful to think about accounting as being three parts.

What is. What do we think we're trying to do?

You know, what do we think we're aiming at? Well, what we think we're aiming at in financial accounting is capturing value.

That's why we went through all the trouble to do the present values and all that stuff through time,

to give you a sense of what that means in a well-defined context,

in the actual world where all these transactions not so well defined, but we know what we're trying to do.

I mean, into we have an intuition as to what we're trying to do.

We're trying to put this value meaning on things. Okay.

Didn't we start doing it?

Well, the first thing you do when you try to do that in a complex situation is realize that, hey, this ain't just computing present values.

And watch me go through time, right? It's too complex.

So some things we're just going to have conventions for it, right? That is.

What does that mean? It's just okay, here's some techniques that we agree are okay.

Use one of those. Tell me which one you use. But go away.

Don't worry about it too much. Okay. So that's the accounting conventions.

And we have a, uh, an acronym called.

No matter where you are. Yeah.

G a. There's a gap in the g a b that's generally accepted accounting principles.

That means when we start trying to capture or, uh, realize our aspirations in this data processing problem.

Oops. We, uh, um, uh, we we just have some conventional ways to do it, so I won't I above you into those when I can't and I'll label it.

Oh, how do you do this? Don't think about it. Just do it this way.

And I would have flagged that by, um, just say, why do we do that? And then I'm going to say, because I'm your mother.

Did your mother ever do that? Just like I'm your mother. That means don't ask me anymore.

This is what's going to happen. And there's a lot of stuff like that.

And you don't want to be fretting around and worrying and spending a lot of time trying to figure out what's going on.

You just have to accept it. The final thing we have to realize,

and this is the hardest what is that is this is a human constructed system and it's run by humans, and humans feel the effects.

And so you always have to be aware of what's the context.

Is this somebody who's giving me this report that's trying to minimize the taxes, day pay,

is this somebody who's going to be a report this trying to paint a nice rosy picture of

what's going on in the in their managerial performance over the period that affects this.

Because again, we're we're going into a very complex world and pulling out pieces of it and aggregating pieces.

We're also going to leave stuff out. And that's the first exercise okay.

This is the most important figure. Uh, I don't know, maybe of your life, I don't know certainly was probably mine.

So how do we do this? Well, the first thing we do is we chop up time.

You know, we say, all right, these all these institutions, we're going to do the accounting for there now,

these things that can last longer than any person and so forth.

So we're going to issue accounting reports periodically.

So what we do is we put down periodically a balance sheet.

And a balance sheet is nothing more than an application of the accounting identity.

So the accounting identity says what assets. Minus liabilities.

And that's defined as our in for profits. We call it equity.

And not for profits. Anybody know what what word we use for not for profits.

There's no way you could unless you've done that. Unless you write it down.

Quote words of it. This is my favorite word. This is my favorite name.

We call it matte assets.

Right. It's just net assets. That means assets minus liabilities.

Right. And then. So what's the what's the right hand side? They're basically assets like this.

But now you're going to see how when we start working this this is if you will.

I'm going to I'm going to think of this more often as stuff.

Wow. Is this really this is what this yellow thing really works.

I don't know about that. This is.

Oh. That's ridiculous. See that? No, I can see that.

Oh. This one. Oh, that's not so bad. So this, as we can think of as.

Stuff. Yeah, that stuff might be rights and obligations and things like that.

But there are things you can kind of get your hand to wrap your arms around.

That's ridiculous. So what is this?

Information. About the recorded.

Stuff. Right.

So this is what double entry accounting is. This identity always has to hold.

This is what you imposed on me with 165 Whitney Associates.

So think about that. You made me make a list of cash.

That stuff. Then you made me make a different list.

Well, where did you get the cash? That's information about the stuff.

Right. It's that stuff itself. It's information about the stuff.

Right. And if I leave something out completely, then I'm not going to have to make any explanation for it.

Right. So we'll see.

There are things we're going to leave out completely, and you always have to keep that in mind when you're looking at a set of accounting statements.

Okay. So that's what balance sheets do at every point in time.

And then we say, well this is great. You've given us this picture, this photo.

There's two different ones. Can you explain what happened that caused the pictures to change?

That's what all the other statements are about. Income statement.

Well, we work, we operated, and we try to produce some quote value.

What does producing value mean? We hope to produce we hope to raise our net assets by doing stuff for people performing services, stuff like that.

Okay, so that's the way we do it, right?

We take pictures at points in time, and then we have all these explanations about why did the pictures change.

Why did the pictures change? Okay.

So, uh. You know, if I'm avoiding, you know, physical analogies because they're get sort of misleading.

You know, you can think a lot of people you talk about accounting, they say stocks and flows.

And the, uh, accounting is just storytelling.

Right. And it's not a physical thing. It's communicating information about things.

It's the same time we're keeping track of a bunch of stuff. We're also keeping track of information about this stuff.

So let's see how it works. Okay. This is this should this should, uh, have anybody look at uncle Penny bags.

Is that. Wasn't there a little case I can't remember generate too much teaching material.

Okay, so what do you think? Curious. You. Who is this guy?

Uncle Penny. You actually know him? I gotta be careful when I use it.

I pulled it off. Something that supposedly. Don't you guys play monopoly?

That's the monopoly guy. Uncle. Paybacks.

Except in monopoly. He's not drinking. Smoking. He didn't lose his shoe.

And it to be kind. So this guy's kind of a risky uncle.

Payback, right? So what does he do?

He forms four companies. And you know it's your rich uncle.

He's going to give them to you and your three siblings. Okay.

Who put your name on top hat? And, uh, his guys are annoying.

Just think of me instead as uncle Penny bags.

What am I doing? I'm always trying to teach you something, right?

Or I shouldn't say that. I'm always trying to help you learn something.

I'm just so annoying. I know that, hiccup. My daughter doesn't mind.

My son drives. My secretary's drives insect crazy.

Just tell dad just to. All right.

But, you know, they lived through it. Okay. So this is going to be some lessons about financial statements.

So he's not just going to give you all the information right upfront. You're going to have to ask for stuff.

Okay. So he says here we go. You're up first.

Here's the balance sheet. I should have had two x's instead of the 20s, I don't know.

This is. Although this reminds me of how long it took me to think about this for this exercise.

So my first accounting course I taught, probably 1974 or 5, took me to 2020 to think of this.

So. Okay, so what happens on January 1st?

Now this is another okay issue here that um, the way you see financial statements put together or proposed,

it actually messes with your ability to put things in that picture that I just said is the most important picture,

because it's statement by statement and period in columns.

So it's not getting you to think actually that I started here and this is my first period.

This is my end period. These are explanations in between. You have to figure that out in yourself.

Okay. So this is starting balance sheet and ending balance sheet.

And that you know is they all started with nothing. So uh this is the ending balance sheet.

Now I can't remember. Did I give you the financial statements in the.

Case. No I didn't, did I? Okay, so here's number one.

All right. So just take a gander at that. They have cash.

They have inventories property plant and equipment. The property plant and equipment was used up.

So that's accumulated depreciation. We'll see how that works.

So the net book value the accumulated of the of the property plant and equipment is 1000.

And so if you add up their total assets that's 44 050 there.

It has $50 in accounts payable. So they bought some stuff I guess on credit from somebody.

And they borrowed a thousand. Oh oh these are a thousand.

So yeah imagine this is all buildings right. And so the total liabilities are 1050.

Well and that means the total equity is three 3 million. Okay.

Again the presentation is not aimed to get you to think about things in the most natural way to think about it.

If you really want to know what's going on. But we'll come back to that. Okay.

So that's number one. What about number two?

Well, they have some cash. They have.

Wait a minute. Oh, no. What about number three?

Oh. These are all the same.

I screwed up. I didn't. I didn't screw up. Okay.

They're all the same. They have this.

They started in the same place. They ended in the same place. Okay.

You have such a nice picture. Which one do you want? One.

Two. 3 or 4? One. What? Like what?

I love your answer. You don't have to have any information.

You can always say one, two, 3 or 4, right? It's a crapshoot.

You got no idea what you're picking. Why'd you pick one? I like one, right?

It's the best you could come up with, right? Okay, so you can make a decision.

But if you could also ask for more details in these financial statements, just the balance sheet, would you ask?

What would you ask for? We do a lot of things in this class by, um, what do they call that process of elimination?

So do you think there's anything buried in the stuff like cash that you might want to know more about, or inventories or whatever?

Well, yeah, you might want to know if they have different things. I'm not going to tell you that. How about property?

You know, so the assets probably you know, this is kind of a detailed picture, right?

How about the liabilities? They borrowed some. They have payables.

Whatever. Okay.

There they are. All together. Okay.

What do you want me to tell you more about? Yeah, maybe.

What exactly? The non-current liabilities.

Nah, that's that's okay. I can do that. There's a lot of stuff you'd want to know about, but there's something actually this.

So think of it a different way. In each of these they had total assets of $4,050,000.

They have total liabilities of 1,050,000. And I have some of the details of what those are.

Did I even have to write up their equity?

Oh, I. Oh that's right. Did I even have to give you that 3 million?

You already knew it. If you know the accounting, I did it.

You already knew. 3 million is the answer. I told you nothing in this equity section.

I didn't give you any details. Right.

You want me to do that? Let's do that.

Okay. Here are the details. Sorry about company number one.

This is telling you the story. This is giving you information about how the company went from nothing to where it is.

And you see that company one. They issued $3,450,000 of common stock, and they incurred a loss of $450,000.

And that's how they got their 3 million. The other three.

I can see that. That's how they got their 3 million. The other three?

They issued 1.5 million in common stock.

And their retained earnings. We will get into what that is also 1.5 billion.

They're all the same. You think that's an accident? No. Right.

But here you can see with with that net loss bill.

I'm not telling you about that.

This stuff is exactly that. Or this stuff is there, which is. Which is why, like I said, I kind of put people off of that.

Of course you want to know all of that stuff, but you want to know this probably even more.

Right. So why do we have this side over here?

Look at this again. Information about the stuff.

That's what you are. What it really is information about.

Changes in the stuff. Right.

Because it's all about how you got from. Why do you have this beginning picture?

This ending picture. Okay.

That's good. Now that.

Now that you know my trick. Let's go further.

How can I get more information about what's underlying the equity section?

There's a thing called the statement of changes in shareholders equity that gives us that.

It gives us every reason that shareholders equity changed over time.

It tells us how did they get those one that 1.5 and that I mean, for all we know,

somebody issued $5 million worth of stock and bought back 3.5 million of it.

We don't know. Right? All we know is where they started and where they.

Oh, okay. There's an accounting professor that told me, uh, you told me this about 1974, but that this is an extremely important statement.

I couldn't understand why. Because if you're an accountant, this is just taking what you've already done and kind of repackaging it.

And then, you know, about five years ago, I realized why you thought he was writing.

Okay. So let's look at these. Okay. All of them.

We can tell very quickly. They just they all issued just 1.5 billion in stock.

So this is telling you how every account in the equity section.

What what why did how did it change. You started with nothing.

That's the beginning balance. And, um, uh, you issued some stuff and then.

So? So these are all the same. But what's happening to the retained earnings is different in company number two.

They had net income of 1.5 million and that was it.

But look at what happened in companies three and four.

The income of each of them had an income of 11.5 million, and they paid a dividend of 10 million.

So by not picking it, you know, if you had owned the company 3 or 4 instead of 1 or 2, you would also be now $2 million richer.

Okay. They earned a profit in. So now.

Okay, I'm going to go further. I don't want to do this.

This is this. This is. This is telling you how they spent their cash.

The last thing we'll do in the course is understanding this. We have to put everything else together first.

But, um. You know, let's look at their income statement.

Their income statement is the account's picture of value. So we said customers.

Okay. So so company number three had 12,000,500.

Uh, I mean, we've we've we've assigned the dollar value to the inflow of value from customers to be 12,500,000.

They had, they paid 550,000 of their suppliers.

So they had a they had this is called the gross margin of 11,950,000.

They have some selling, general and administrative expenses of 450.

That is just the depreciation. So that's how they got their 11 million. They're 11.5 million.

12.5 million in sales. And. I guess it ended up being a million in costs.

Let's look at number four. Way. Different story.

Way different story. It number four had 5,000,512 million $500 of sales, but their cost of goods sold was 500,550,000.

Yeah, they were left with 950, but they got there with very different ways.

You had very different inflows and outflows going on. So an income statement.

This is telling us a lot about the recorded value flows.

I'm going to say I'm going to drive you crazy by saying recorded every time.

I would like to tell you where I learned that word from one of my law students about three years ago.

Oh, this is exactly what you're doing. You know, the equity section tells you about the assets and liabilities on the other side of the identity.

If something's left out, it's not going to be there at all. Okay.

So the point of all of this is, uh, forget that that's cash flow statement.

We'll get into that. Oh, okay. I'm going to skip this for a second.

So the point of all of this, though, is to really start you off understanding what the equities,

what equities really is, is information about where you got this stuff.

People say complete [INAUDIBLE] about this 24 seven.

They say is the owners stake as if you could sell the company for that.

Oh really? Is that why Apple has a market capitalization of $3 trillion and you look up its total assets,

$3 trillion if you take all the stock has been traded and the price of the stock,

you would say its market capitalization or what the market thinks Apple's worth is at least 3 trillion.

Go to the balance sheet. They have reported assets of less than $500,000,000 billion.

So their equity can't be more than 500 billion. Or even if it's 100 billion.

Doesn't matter. The equity, the the book value, the equity is not what the company's worth.

Right. It's information about this side.

This is why you have to. This is why you really want to take this course, right?

Because you have to understand how this thing's being worked.

It's not an it's. The numbers don't mean direct things.

Like, if I step on my bathroom scale, it's going down, by the way.

Because if you see me in a bad mood, it's personal information day.

So now I'm upset bound. So I'm losing weight, so that's good.

But I know what that number means, right? I look at my bathroom scale.

I don't have to know did it calculate it with some sprains and some this or that or something?

I don't care. I know that, you know, I think my number is, you know, is bigger than yours.

So if I'm on one end of a fair teeter totter and you're on the other, I'm going down and you're going up.

I know that, right? Accounting numbers are not like that.

Accounting numbers. The first question is how did you get that number? Right.

So tell me. Tell me how I got that number. Okay.

So you have. You want to be able to process that information. Okay.

I want to go to. Uh, the the Merc and the ox thing is just to show you that there are things that are systematically left out,

and the highlights of it was simply that there was a product liability dispute.

They had this arthritis drug or something, and vastly a lots of people used it.

And then somebody says, oh, fine, start finding out. Maybe it causes heart trouble, or maybe it causes heart attacks.

So they're getting sued by thousands of people. Okay, this is worth talking.

Didn't mean to look at this of the vioxx student marketing vioxx thing.

They got sued by thousands of people. Now what the didn't they said, okay, we're going to defend these suits.

We're going to defend these suits. We're not just paying everybody whatever they say, okay?

They pass some board resolution. We're defending these suits.

Now, the accounting rules say if you do something like that, you have to estimate the total cost you're going to spend in defense.

And make an accounting entry for that. Basically people are use a terrible word for it.

They call it reserve. Just. There's no reserve.

It's I'm debiting some, you know, legal, you know, expected future legal expenses and crediting a liability.

Okay, so the counting calorimetry. How about for the losses that they might have in litigation?

Way bigger than their defense costs, probably. I think ultimately I think they sell everything like 5 billion.

Those those potential losses in litigation are not on the financial statements anywhere.

They're not on the financial statements any where we read the accounts explanation of why it's not.

The council. The official. Type of explanation is this.

Oh, that's why we can't put a dollar value on that.

We don't know how to. We don't know how to measure it.

People will say, I hate that word. We don't know how to measure it.

We don't know how to assign a dollar value. Duh.

How did they decided that they're going to spend $500 million to defend it?

If they didn't have some idea of how much they could lose? This is an absurd explanation for why you didn't do it.

Oh, I could put a number for that. Or the stock market put a number four.

How about that? Go look at the graphs. And if you can go look at the slides after you'll see their stock price pool.

Okay, I got an idea. Just take the value the stock price fall.

Use that for how much they expect to lose. The argument that we can't come up with the number.

Is that nonsense? But there's another reason for it.

Anything that we put in here that we're going to officially count, let's think about.

Do we want to just, like, let anybody make anything up and put it in here?

Oh, hey. I had an idea.

Last night was fantastic. It's going to be a great asset to my company.

I want to put that on my books. You want me to do that? No, that's stupid rabbit.

You know I'm not gay. There's no reason. Okay, so therefore, anything that we build into here has got to have some evidence for it.

Oh, that's the, uh, stock price for evidence.

Nobody has to have any evidence to decide whether to buy or sell Merck's stock.

Hey, it's their stock, is there? They're putting their money where their mouth is. Right.

If they buy the stock, there's enough money.

If they're selling the stock, they're giving up their ownership. Like.

But we don't, you know, we don't they don't have to have a reason or they don't have to have evidence for it.

They can design their own. But we're writing something down.

We're recording a record. We have to have a reason. We can't just be letting people tell us everything.

Okay, so there's evidence for, uh, the fall or there's evidence.

There's. I'm sorry. So? So we need evidence for it. So let's play this out.

A bunch of accountants at Merck. Look at this thing and said, based on the available evidence.

I think you're going to lose $5 million in lawsuits.

Okay. Why do you think that? Well, we've looked at the evidence.

We've decided. Yeah, there's enough evidence there. You're gonna lose 5 billion.

Okay. Make an accounting entry. You know, loss from debit loss.

Credit liability. 5 billion. All right.

Put that out. What's going to happen the next day in court with somebody suing vioxx?

That they should be liable for this damage caused by their drug.

The plaintiff's attorney comes in and says, hey, they admitted it.

Here's their ballot. You know, they have a they they just made an accounting entry on their books that said they're liable for $5 billion.

That's a confession. Let's go home. That makes sense.

That's what would happen in the real world if you played it out.

We don't want that to happen. We're not going to get into the accountants.

Accounts aren't going to get into anything like that. Right.

But anything that's on the balance sheet, anything that's captured in the account,

there's a representation made implicitly that the accounting definition to write that a liability is an obligation to pay or some sort of.

Why would you have an obligation to pay if you're if you're not guilty.

Boom. Over. Okay. So that's why the last thing is there is context.

Okay. I just I but I, we just went through a case where, uh, in which the, um, you know,

the context led me to say I'm going to keep this certain level of stuff completely out of the accounts.

So I'm going to do this. Um. I don't know how much, if at all.

I've always had trouble figuring out exactly how to make this exercise work or fit.

I decided that to go into the Yale, there was only one analysis.

This because I wanted to get you into that software framework.

Right? So you could see that coach. You always have it in every problem.

You could always work through whatever you're looking at on the analysis tab.

And, uh, I don't know if you show it all the way down, but you can go all the way to every entry you want to make and check.

Okay. Now that that coach gives you or that line of reasoning gives you a couple to think, okay, first question.

Are you going to recognize something? So here we go.

We issued 50,000 in common stock. Are we going to recognize something.

Of course we did this with 165 Whitney Associates right. But now here's the trick.

So the answer is. Yes.

I'm going to recognize something. What am I going to recognize?

Well, I got 50,000 in cash here, but now look.

Uh. Hey. What? What? My identity is not preserved.

Right? Because this this doesn't balance. This is supposed to be.

Oh, I messed up. Hang on, hang on a second.

Not you. There. You there. No, it's not okay, so something else has to happen.

This is the power of the identity. It's making me say, okay, I have $50,000 of stuff and.

And the explanation was for why?

How? How did we get that? We issued ownership claims to people.

50. Noticed I framed that more like a verb.

I didn't say we gave people common stock that was worth 50.

I said we engaged in selling equity and 50 was the number I thought I had to put on it.

Okay. Huge. Misunderstandings um, uh, result from just mixing up nouns and verbs.

Okay, so how about this one? Uh, received $50,000 from a bank in a loan?

Sure. Yes. So this is your. The first step in how you learn accounting is you get used to playing with this identity 50.

Okay. And then you walk your way through and you're going to find out that it doesn't really matter if you, uh, had cash.

No, let's just do this one. And then there's some others that won't be good.

Hey, you're supposed to turn on. Oh. They're good. Uh, no, that's not the one I like.

I want to go to this one. So received a building.

Well, okay, we got to recognize that we got a building that is valued at 50 in exchange for common stock.

Well, look, 50 is the only number I have.

But say the point is this 50 is a different kind of beast than those 50s that had a cash in them.

Okay, uh, now, what I wanted to do, though, is.

Two things. Uh. What we're doing is better.

Oh. Well, we can do it here.

Look at these two entries just for the fun of it. Hey!

Come on. You go there, you go there.

All right. In both cases, assets were up by 50.

What's different is really kind of the explanations for it.

One of them is the assets went up by by 50 because we have an obligation to pay people back.

That's a liability. That's an easy one. Assets went up because liabilities went up.

And the other one, though his assets went up because we assumed ownership series.

So you can already see how the accounting system is keeping track of stuff, but also reasons for what happened.

Okay. Um, let me go down to.

This guy right here. All right.

Received a call. From a customer saying, hey, I'm going to buy something next month.

Do you want to record that? I think if you start recording stuff like that, you're going to be busy recording a lot of things, right?

So we say no. Is that could that be a very important economic event?

Absolutely. Absolutely. In fact, if you look at airline manufacturers, when they announce they're going to build a new plane,

the first thing they do is they go out and try to get orders for it, and you'll see what happens to their stock prices.

They report they get orders or don't get orders. It's not on their financial records okay.

It's not booked, but it's incredibly important economic event.

So we sort of knew this because, I mean, this is a reason why I say information about this stuff,

because our picture of this complex world is, by definition, limited compared to what's happening in the world itself.

Do you ever see a painting or by Escher,

one of these things where you look at it like you walk upstairs in the painting and you walk it upstairs and you end up back down where you were?

I'm sure that. Look at that. Yes. Yeah. This is these are great things.

So it's an optical illusion. Why does that optical illusion work?

Well, the optical illusion works because the painting is in two dimensions.

But the thing you're making, the inference about this trigger in your mind is three dimensions.

Okay. So you can have a painting that stimulates you or cause you to.

But if it's lower dimension than the thing itself, he couldn't do that by going a model a 3D model.

Okay. So we'll pick it up here. Next slide. I'm going to go through some of this.

And you'll see. Part of it is trying to aimed at getting you the sense that there's kind of a line we draw somewhere.

We have to draw a line here. The things are in or out of this.

They're not half in half though. Okay. So it's stuff starts happening and evidence starts building up.

At some point we say that's enough it in. Last question you if there's an answer for this so there will be I'll put it in and it's true.

Is it due to there's uh all these things sort of help you turn it in whenever you can.

I have a hard time with the submission on this, but. Yes, do that what you and I had this week in the past.

Yeah. It's due before class. Really? You should always do it before class.

Okay. Yeah. But what I'm really concerned about, too, is what you should always do.

Yeah, you should always do it before class, because more and more, you're going to see the things we deal with has got a lot of parts to you,

you know, just like you have to study some vocabulary before a, uh, Spanish class or something.

This, that. So thank you. Yeah.

The only reason I doubt I stumble on this one, because I've had trouble with exactly how I found it to the the questions.

Can I ask you? Oh, sure. So I was trying to do the silly things you want to do for this, but.

Oh, this is actually very fun.

I would never. Know what I would do.

So go back to it was the video.

