[Auto-generated transcript. Edits may have been applied for clarity.]
Okay. Well. Reporting.

This. Week.

You. Want.

To. Okay.

40. It's really.

So, um. Um, well, I would say showing the same thing in three schools wouldn't be the same thing on all three screens.

Okay. So when I went through the way that all the assignments are, uh, are done, and then I realized that, uh.

I don't quite know how to express this, but, like,

going through the learning accounting website and stuff like that, you can sort of do that at the same.

You can take it, take a little bit of time to do that, because I'm going to roll things out in class a lot slower than that.

Okay. And I just realized when I looked at it again, I go, wow. And I was like blasting through the stuff.

But one of the things that it does that that I don't do in class, uh, for a while is I show you some real annual reports and things like that,

and the only thing you should be doing now is just saying, wow, people look at this, you know, uh, uh,

one thing you'll find, um, you know,

quite quickly and I think a clipboard found out really soon is that if you don't know the organization of these statements,

what's on wear and so forth, I mean, it's a nightmare to try to look stuff up piece by piece, right?

And, you know, this has been invited so long.

Now I forget that, um, but this is a lot of a lot of what we're doing is trying to get that in our, in our heads, okay?

Because what's going on with this set of accounting statements is a whole lot of

information is being conveyed with actually an interlocking set of statements.

And it's a big Shaw to try to push through, to sort of learn that everybody is capable of it, no problem.

But it's a chore because you have to slog through a bunch of stuff.

But once you do that, then you develop a good first thing.

You develop an understanding of, well, if you want to ask a certain question, where might you find data relevant for that?

Should I go to the balance sheet? Should I go to the income statement? Should I look at their assets?

Should I look at their expenses? Should I get their cash flow statement? Should I like, you know, uh oh, this won't be in the statements.

Maybe there's a footnote, you know, that kind of stuff. And that's just an experience.

And there's no way anybody can give that to you. But I wanted to just flag for you that that's why there's a bunch of stuff.

Well, actually, one reason there's a bunch of real annual reports and things like that is that I

took that from the free work course that I used for executives and other people.

And so if I just started everything like this, there are a bunch of people in class who say, hey, what's going on?

And this is, you know, maybe a couple people like, believe me, it's not going to be okay.

So, uh, but it just occurred to me that you might not, um, uh, if you there's no way you can know that unless I.

Unless I told you. Okay. Now, we started doing this last time, and, uh, you know, I, I noticed something that I should talk about,

but then I forgot that when I got, when I started looking at it again, like, remember.

Okay, just take a look at those three trends, those three things that we just that we recorded the only three things.

Okay. So this is how accounting works.

Like you put down an identity and then you use that identity to record, gather and compile workshop information that you're actually going to convey.

Okay. So this whole thing is one big information processing class, right.

But it's information processing class with a technology that's lasted 500 years.

Okay. So what not 500 years ago, it was sort of been finished more, more or less finished form.

Um, and so, you know, it survived everything.

You know, it survived everything. Computerization of records, discovering negative numbers.

Zero. You know, kind of stuff. Right? It's crazy.

But I just wanted you to look at. And how does this kind of work.

So what you do is you play with this and you start getting the sense of how you how we use this identity.

So I just wanted to point out that in, uh, you can all three cases, $50,000 of cash was raised.

Right. So the assets of the firm, 50,000 in all three cases.

But look at how the other side of the identity works.

Okay. In the first case, they raised the 50,000 in cash.

How did they get in that? Well, they raised it from shareholders.

That was. Shareholders contribution. In the second case, they borrowed it.

To what are we doing? We've got cash in one place, but we're keeping track in the others.

More information of just the cash, right? Contracting more information than just the cash.

And in the third case, they received $50,000 from a customer in exchange for the performance of services.

Okay. Now you can't see it from here.

But that's going to affect equities right there right.

Yeah. But at this at this higher high level or compile aggregated level, you can't really see what we're doing with that.

Right. So what we're going to do with with equities then is we're going to have some

detail that helps us separate what happened with live one where they raised things

from their with from their shareholders and what happened in that transaction in

like three transaction three where they got the cash by performing services,

you know. So you really can't think about that too much, right?

The same amount of cash is coming in. But we're about to say that the double entry system gets us,

helps us keep track of not only that, but tell the story of what's happening during the period.

You know, cash went from 0 to 150, recorded at a recorded cash rate.

Uh, and. Well, why?

How? There's three different reasons. Okay, so I have a tendency to do things like this, and even even if I don't even notice.

Right. I'll hold down one piece like cash of 50 is going in.

Right. And then I'll vary the other pieces. So if you sense me, if you sense an exercise just that it's doing that.

Yeah. That's that helps you see really what's going on like daily right.

Like. You guys are way too young for all two TVs that you got, um, signals through there.

You probably. Well, if you watch enough science fiction, like, maybe, um, uh, fallout, you know,

they they have things, you know, where they're these old and the pictures are fuzzy.

It it's going this way and that way. And so what you'd have to do is you'd have to tune in to reception.

Uh, a big thing would be sometimes you turn on the TV and then the picture would be rolling like this.

You just see Boris coming. Boris. So that. So that's one.

I'm sure that you're aware of this. Right. And the other dog would, it would, might be the other way, might be going the other way.

And so some people when they started trying to fix their TV, they just take both knobs and start turning everything.

Oh no no no no, I fiddle with the antenna and that's another story.

And get the antenna. You gonna put some tinfoil? But, you know, turn one knob at a time and then you could dial it.

Okay. So that's what we're doing. We're just, you know, with things like this where, uh, we're turning one knob at a time.

And so why we're doing it, uh, I thought, well, how about this?

Another 50,000 is going to come in, but this time it's not in cash.

Somebody, one of the founders. That was their contribution to start the company.

They didn't bring cash. They got a building, said, okay, I'm putting that in the company.

But. Right. Now, one of the trickiest things is are we going to recognize this number one?

Well, yeah. Just because it's not cash, I mean it's still an asset.

We can go look at it. Right? It's that kind of asset even, you know,

we don't have a we don't we don't have unlike some sort of intellectual property or invention we don't really know.

Is it really there? Oh, there it is. Okay.

That's not the important part though. That's just the evidence that an asset is there, that evidence of a future benefit is that created.

Okay. Well, it's it's obvious in this case.

And that's usually true with tangible assets. You know, anything that's tangible that moves around, you know, accounting systems, you record them.

Yeah. Okay. Uh, it's the intangible things that, you know, the things that don't just beat us on the head.

Oh, that's this is where it is, however. Okay. So we're going to record it.

Yes. But since cash didn't change hands, the point of this is to try to is to play a little bit of,

uh, maybe not even conscious thought that, uh, that it gave you that number.

Right. Because if I just said donated a building.

For in exchange for stock. What would you do?

And that's how the whole thing would be experienced, right. One of the owners, instead of giving cash, gave and gave up building.

Well, here's another thing about the double entry system.

You can say, well, what you have about once you have a number for the building, you also have the number for the stock.

Once you have the number for the stock, you also have the number for the building.

So if this if this happened in rapid succession, maybe even the same day, you might look up and say, well,

I don't want to get into value in the building, but this person received the same amount of stock that that person that just gave me $50,000 for.

Okay. Building 50. Make sense?

Okay. So. So that's a little taste of, you know, uh, how this identity in this process is applied.

As things not so simple, right?

But double entry and thinking that, all right, at the time of an exchange of one thing for another, you know, like this.

Yeah. If it's a fair exchanged and both sides got equal value.

Okay. So 50 is what I'm going to record is the asset. Now where's the other side?

Well, there's not a liability. Right.

So it's got to be equity. Now that's.

This is also worth. Worth contrasting. One and four.

Okay.

Because if we're going to look at our balance sheet, we're going to see that buildings went up by, cash went up by 50 and buildings went up by 50.

And there's a big thing. We don't really have any trouble adding up the cash, right.

When we look and say, okay, well, you know, um, how much cash do we have?

That's we're adding up a thing, right?

No problem. But when we look at the equity side, both of these people contributed something in common stock.

So the reason that the equity sides went up? Yeah, it's kind of generally the same.

But the specifics were very different. And yet what we're going to do is aggregate all of that.

That is we're going to we're going to just see common stock. It didn't matter whether the person gave us cash or gave us a bill.

Okay. So what happens in the accounting process?

We're going to get used to it. I realize the reason I'm telling you this is because I'm trying to sell,

is that some of this stuff we just lumped together and the stuff like cash, buildings, that kind of thing that adds up, right?

I mean, when you put a bunch of when you aggregated and add it all up.

Yeah, no big deal. But those things we write down that are reasons for things and we end up aggregating those.

Uh, that's a different story because reasons don't just add up.

So this is a huge problem that people have.

They try to get around it sometimes by by ignoring the fact that what we're really

doing is accumulating information and thinking of all of it is somehow stuff.

It's not all stuff, right?

We're keeping track of stuff and a bunch of reasons for things, a bunch of information about how that stuff came in and went out and so forth.

And, um, so when we look at, uh, those accounts that are more just informational equities or whatever, then those are a different beast.

Does that make sense? Yeah, yeah.

All this, um, you know, so what we found with this identity and this double entry, if you go back to,

I don't know if I've, I've tried to re-upload the origin stories of things again,

where there is a, um, a website that you kind of walk through how people might have discovered these things and,

uh, it actually, it's it's it's pretty interesting.

It's the story that I'm trying to tell there is that nobody invented this system.

In one piece. You know, it didn't it didn't fall down and it all fully formed and say, oh, this is what we did.

It was discovered over a long period of time, and part of the way it was discovered was, you know,

there's a certain set of sort of, let's call it tricks, double the double entry trick in particular.

And they just kept working no matter what we did.

Yeah. And people had a lot of trouble figuring that out, you know, like when they first started doing accounting and they might say,

well, it's good for merchants, but how about somebody to make something? Oh, you know, how about even a nonprofit?

This is really good for a nonprofit. Okay. Uh, we can do this.

We can use the same sort of setup. We have to adapt it every time you double.

If you just kept working. It just kept working. You couldn't break it.

All right. There's nothing that nothing you wanted it to do. That was.

Besides, you know, foretell the future or something that that it couldn't do.

Okay, or that it wasn't good, that it didn't help.

I should say that you know, that there's always a way that you could use the system to help you out,

that you couldn't necessarily get all the way to the right answer to, you know, to exactly what you wanted to know, but you get helped, okay.

And that's, you know, and so accounting systems grew up that way.

Okay. Now that I did another thing, received $50,000 for a building, um, for in exchange for a promise to pay.

So that's pretty easy, right. Uh, uh, assets went up and liabilities went up.

Okay. All right.

Oh. So they. So they bought some stuff for cash.

Are we going to recognize it? Yeah.

I want to get you into the notion that any time, you know, a visible a transaction takes place, you know, that we're going to get every time.

Right. Those that there's nothing that can.

Any time and transaction takes place. To recognition is.

Yes. And you'll see you're talking about other other things will just be information you might learn.

Are you going to make an entry? That's a tougher one. But anytime it's a transaction we'll make an entry.

All right. So what do you stuff.

What do you think we call this stuff. We. We bought for resale.

Bought for resale. Inventories.

Right. This is another problem that you use.

And there's a ton of words, right, that, uh, you know, that we'll use because we do try to describe if it's an asset,

we don't just usually look at the total when you try to bring those guys.

Well, what are those. Okay. So that's why the balance sheet.

So we take the asset side. And in U.S. what we do is break it down between current and non-current.

And that roughly the idea is how close is it to cash.

So so cash is really close to cash. It's already cash.

What's the next closest a receivable. That's the right to get cash.

How about the next closest might be, you know, marketable securities.

That might even be closer than receivables. Why?

Because if there's a running market for the stocks and so forth that you hold shares and stock you're holding,

just go to sell stuff and you get that's fine. How about inventories?

Uh, you got to sell it to some if if, you know, if it's, um, stuff you're going to sell, you got to find the customer, sell it to the customer.

If it's on account you got it, then that get moved into a receivable and then you collect the receivable and then you get cash.

It's further steps away. Right. How about a manufacturing?

Or how about a oh yeah. Manufacturing plant. Well, you got to build the stuff.

Then you put it in your inventory to sell, and then you find the customer, you know.

Okay. So that's. The liability side for an add on is pretty straightforward.

It's just, you know, how much is due within like a year or one operating cycle if you got to come up with the cash within a year,

that's what we're labeling, right? I mean, said, okay.

So we do that breakdown. And those are fairly the actual the details in a fairly natural.

The information side of this story. What's happened to equity? That's that's where it's tough.

That's where we really have to get into. How are they? What's going on here?

How are they doing this okay. My inclination, by the way, is to, um.

Oh, wait, but what happens? Let's look. This is an interesting one, right?

Because what happens here when you're 18?

Oh, sorry. Well, but so what?

Asset inventory went up. But another one. Cash with debt.

Oh, no. I got gotta say something. So one goes up, one goes down.

So in aggregate, nothing happened. But things are starting to move around among the categories.

So, uh. Okay. Uh, so so so by now, you should be starting to get a little bit, uh, does he have to do all of these things, you know.

Right. With some of them. Because, like, you got some goods you only promise to pay.

Okay. Well would say. Yeah, that an exchange has taken place.

What's the exchange? Goods came in and a promise went out.

To this end, he said again. If they bought 18, you know they lost.

This is. Where we are concerned.

Residual goods came in and a promise went out.

Let's talk about the first case where.

So in the first case. Let's just look at it from the point of view of our total.

Oh, I did it automatically. This is what I'm going to do. Okay.

So this is our assets. And in the first case what happened.

Well where they bought where they bought inventory for cash.

What happened. Well 18 in cash came in I'm sorry.

18 in inventory came in. Project.

Right. I'm going to write that on the left of my tablet. Right.

And then. 18 in cash.

Without. But. Now.

How? How do you want me to handle that? A negative number maybe will not win these and then not when these techniques were discovered.

They didn't have negative numbers. Easy to do.

I split my thinking to write. This is what comes in.

This is what goes on the. Right.

Okay, let's take the second. Uh. In the second case, a little more complicated.

Assets. But then I also have liabilities.

What's called another inventory. We've got to get.

Inventory. Okay.

What happened in the second case? Inventory came in.

What went out? A promise, right?

A promise to pay. So what I'm going to do is I'm going to say something that goes out.

You. Right to make sense.

We all. Everything okay with that? Yeah, well, now you know.

Debits and credits. Okay, so if I write it on the left, I'm going to call that a debit.

If I write it on the right I'm going to call that a credit. No matter what account.

Okay. So this saved you from trying to keep track of a whole bunch of psych problems, right?

So if I say liabilities get increased and I'm just writing this negative numbers.

What does that mean?

You know, what does it mean if the liability was zero and I recorded it with negative numbers that it would be, then it would be -18.

When -18 is smaller than zero. What do you mean increased?

Oh no. But I'm talking about negative numbers.

So absolutely you see what happens when you have a lot of pieces that gets confusing and what debits and credits stays.

And we'll figure all that stuff out later. Just just track the what comes in on the left and what goes out on the right.

And then we'll sort out what does that mean? So what that means is when we make more promises, the balance in our liability account goes up.

We owe more. More promises went out, right.

Um. So. Credits. If we're thinking about how much we owe.

If I credit a liability account, that means we owe more than we did before.

If I debit and if I. If I credit an asset account, we have less than we did before.

It's because of the perspective of the account when these things that the others promised.

Cool. All right, I learned accounting.

With sophomore year I graduated 1971, 7172.

So 72 1972.

This is the first time I've tried this. This, um, first course.

I've seen this explanation, but, you know, I heard it all.

Friggin Claude taught me this. This is where I'm just like.

I'm pretty freaked out because I'm learning very fundamental things by using it to put together.

So if you go to those accounting origin stories that I, they might do, I might have to go put new refresh the website within 5 or 6,

but you can try it just laying out the story and working through it with you yet thought of it, hadn't thought of ways of doing things.

I'm going to use the word thought that I didn't. So to me, that's the most natural thing I've ever seen.

I've never seen an account. Not only did I not think of it. I've never seen an accounting professor do it.

Yeah, I just don't listen. The many of them. It's what's on the left.

That's it. Okay. I mean, at first, uh, at first, I think, uh, is the origin of that.

I think it's more opaque. I mean, if you get some real, uh, maybe in patches, there's some explanation for it, but this one, this one,

I think the credits to the liabilities is more natural because it's like you're

you're the party on the other side is allowing this because of your good credit,

your credentials. Oh, yeah. I'll take your promise.

Right. So that so that one you can kind of get your head on. Right. Okay.

But these inflows and outflows things let me it this way.

You know, this is a problem we, we have with with the, uh, with our own minds.

Every time you've been talked to about this by any institution, you go to the bank, you do anything like that.

They're not, they're not. They're talking from their perspective.

Not from your perspective. So what comes in to them went out to you and what went out to them comes into you.

So we we're used to this and so and then up you. Oh I credit your account for this or that.

Right. Uh, you know, um, a debit card.

Why does a debit card work? Why is it debit? Because, hey, the bank owes you money.

Right? The bank owes you when you.

Here's a debit card. You reduce what the bank owes you.

Okay? It's right in.

But people are always talking about it from their point of view, which is often you're looking at is it the mirror image or the eye?

If you get some. Okay.

Oh, now, you know, in computerized systems everything has everything gets in up, ends up getting converted to positive numbers and negative numbers.

But the computer's not trying to interpret what's going on, right?

It's just carrying out the mathematical operations. Okay.

However, even some of the most sophisticated computerized systems I've seen.

Somewhere in the record is a is a field that was this a debit or credit?

You know, even though it's kind of redundant, you should be able to tell that, uh,

it's still there because when humans who know the system start analyzing it, this is very good technology.

This is very good notation. Okay.

Um, and oh, here's a good one. Okay.

Let's look at this one. Uh. Paid some cash and made a promise to pay the rest in exchange for some.

Goods. Okay, of course we're going to recognize that.

But let's look at what happens right here.

We have 18 comes in right. And 17 in cash goes out.

But what also goes out? Is a promise.

All right. So I want you to keep in mind that that asset thing now is burying offsetting effects.

But it's sort of like it wasn't just one thing.

For one thing, like many things.

Staff. This is where the accounting technology really shines, right?

As long as we're just keeping track of one thing coming in and one thing coming out and, you know, you can sort of.

But as soon as well, the ultimate goal executive students tell me what's that's what's the biggest journal entry you've ever seen?

And it was millions and millions and millions of individual things.

When they established Space Force in Trump's first administration out of various other government departments,

they had to do an accounting where they made this new entity called Space Force,

and they had to push a bunch of stuff into millions and billions plus use this technology.

Yeah. So on this one, you're still getting 18,000 worth of inventories.

Yeah. This is kind of right. So so let's let's let me let me then I see you looking at this.

Yeah. Let's do that okay. Let's do that. Um.

So what? Uh. Well, I guess it be both, right. Oh, let's.

Yeah. Uh. Let's see. Inventories, cash.

Let me let me do it. Do it over here. Right. You can see it's a very good question because you can see how stuff starts getting complicated.

Okay. So now I have two asset accounts, right?

Instead of just one. And so what happened is, uh, 18 an inventory came in.

And what without was 17 in cash and a promise.

To pay of one. Account name.

But notice how the flows got balanced, right?

It starts. It starts being portrayed as being balanced.

Right. You know, it's we're going to deal with that for a long time.

Um, you know, it gets complicated because you can have things, but we're bunch of different stuff comes in and promises.

You know, I forgave your debt, and you do this for me. And then, uh, 16 things going in and out.

And this is where the techniques of journal entries.

So we're going to start going through really are good because it's a notation for handling all of that.

Because notice the property is that we're preserving is the debits equal the credits.

Right. The stuff on the left equals the stuff on the right. You know what really is fun?

When we write down everything we can easily see, and we write down the inflows and outflows, and it doesn't balance.

It's easy to see the debits don't equal the credits. What does that mean?

Well, I got some explaining to do. That can't happen.

We don't allow that. And this is the double entry discipline itself.

This is a problem if we if we decide we're going to recognize something.

That's why recognitions and call and see if the answer to that is no.

We just move on. But if the answer to that is yes, then we're back.

We have to record a balancing entry. We have to.

That's the discipline. So sometimes when we get busy.

Yeah. We'll see a couple of examples this deep into the weeds of stuff going on.

It's just like, you know, instead of bringing it all in and putting the numbers down and weight everything you say, you know what?

We're just leaving that out. Just leave it out. Not going to do it.

Okay, because you're either in or out.

It's not half in, half out. It doesn't blend in and blend.

Uh, it's either in or out that has dramatic effects on what the ultimate numbers mean.

What's been left out? Just as it can be.

Just as important. Possibly more important, depending on the situation than the things that have been included.

Apple computer. I don't know if we did this already.

We will do it again. I mean, you could see that the the case that the canvas stuff.

I think I put that together in 2019 so you could see what was going on there.

It's even more extreme now. Is it apples like that?

If you took the trade in stock and ask yourself, what is the economic equity, not the book value equity,

but kind of economically, what does the market say that Apple's equity is worth in total?

It's it's at least $3 trillion.

I say least because if you buy a whole company, usually you pay more than just the sum of the prices because you get to control the whole company.

You're not just a shareholder. You have control. Okay.

Never going to buy a whole company. That's probably valuable to you. Okay.

$3 trillion. Total assets. Total assets.

Not even deducting their liabilities. They don't have that many liabilities.

But total assets are less than their.

They're a few hundred billion. Okay.

So that tells you what that this process they've been a lot of times where the answer to that do we recognize this is no.

Or they're doing good stuff that the question just never occurs to us.

Right. So they're inventing new things. I mean, the way I screen that is is a great example of this, right?

Because it's all software. It's all training some models. Hey, what works?

What does it you know, when do you think that like, um, anthropic sort of OpenAI's book, the balance sheets.

What do you think those balance sheets look like? Do you think they really capture the value of the intellectual property is being created?

But what? Do we have no idea what that is, right?

We have a you know, if they go when they go public, well, when they have to go borrow money or get an infusion of equity,

somebody has to go through an exercise to try to put a number on there.

Okay. But that's, you know, uh, full of judgment and so forth.

Okay. Let's see. Uh.

Let's. Let's get you out of here. This is a good one.

Received a call from a past customer during which they said, uh, hey, I'm going to buy $8,000 worth of stuff next month.

So there's a whole bunch of things with $8,000 floating around. Do you want to record that?

Is it important? Possibly. It's important.

It's possibly important. But we ain't going to record it, right?

So anytime I say something like that, there's some industry somewhere where this stuff comes up, right?

One of the most known examples here is airline manufacturers as they design a new line of airplanes.

Right. And that takes a long time to build.

And you're going to use those for a long time.

You're going to build them for a long time. But the lead up is big.

So they'll have a design. And then they go try to sell the design.

So this is the plane we're going to build. You know, your, uh, American Airlines, you're going to buy it.

Yeah. I'll, uh, I'll order, you know, 40 of those. Those look good.

Cheaper. Bigger. You know, easier to. So those orders to the airline industry are like, that's that's vital, right?

It's like, I mean, if they get no orders for a proposed design, forget it.

The design is not good. But just because they get orders doesn't mean we're ready to do something in the accounting identity.

Great. Wake me up when something really happens.

Okay. When something really happens, then we have to figure out.

What do you mean? Something really happens? How about they sign a formal commitment?

Uh, okay. Go to the other end. How about the planes delivered?

Okay. The plane. There's a plane. You got that right.

You owe me. That's a regular transaction. Okay.

Okay, so the answer is no.

Uh. If I could come back to the table.

But this one announced its intention to bid for a contract.

Talk is cheap. Not going to do that. But what I want you to imagine is if we had decided to do it, what would we have to do?

We'd have to concoct some sort of balancing entry here.

Right? If we decided okay, I'm going to recognize that. So then I guess you would say some we've created some sort of possible future business.

That's a benefit. So I guess assets have to go up. But what else would.

But but the accounting identities say you can't just do that. You got to enter a balancing act a balancing entry.

What else goes on. And at a high level you only have so many choices.

You know, if we decided to recognize an asset for this, then we could have another asset go down.

I don't see. We could have liabilities going up. They don't owe anybody anything.

Or let's see asset assets go. Wait a minute. Assets go down.

No assets went up. So liabilities could go up or equities could go up.

That's our only choice. We don't have any other choices.

So if we decide to move on, then that's what we have to do. So you know what?

I'm not even going to get into it. That explains a huge amount about a accounting and a huge amount of people's misunderstandings about accounting,

because implicitly, a lot of people expect it to be complete.

To capture everything that goes on. When I get on a scale and I look at my weight, I don't leave my arm on the counter.

You know. I do. Watch fall.

Amy, watch! Fall out! Jump the fire! Oh!

Come on. Really? They had a ghoul as arm fell off and he was carried along, so I couldn't say I left my arm right.

I don't do that right. I'm completely on the. Everything I'm interested in is on the scale.

If I want to weigh my dog. What do I do? Well, I get on the scale away myself.

Then I pick the dog up. And then I look at both and then everything I know.

Then I just do subtraction, right? But the point is that everything that I want to know about is on the scale.

Can't happen. Not only do we not do it. It would be stupid to try to do.

So when people say all these things, all these accounts, they're all, you know, weird.

They don't know. They don't get it. Yeah. All right. That's somebody that doesn't know anything about what they're talking about.

The process of actually producing things. They might know what they want to see.

But. I also probably know what they want to see depending on what decision they want to make.

But is it going to be formally in the records and not about.

It's early. Okay.

Okay. Then we get into this game. We get into this game.

Right? So we said here, no, we're just because they this because they thought they were going to um bid.

We said nah. How about when they put in the bid so you can see what I'm doing right?

I'm walking closer and closer and closer in baby steps to something where maybe they get a contract.

If I. If in the end they don't get a contract, then it sort of all goes away.

I don't have a problem anymore, I didn't. There's nothing left to account for.

Although they would have incurred. Um, costs in doing this, but those costs didn't build any asset.

They didn't build future benefits. It ended up being a flop if they don't get the contract.

Okay. Step closer. Hey, you made it to the next round right now.

Now he's not going to not going to record that.

I, I still would be in the same position just because you made it through a few rounds.

I'm still in basically the same position that, uh.

I would have to have a balancing injury and I don't even know what that would be.

Oh, here's a now here's one. Okay, how about this? It's been the bid has been accepted.

What do you want to do there? I mean, a case could be made, right, that something good has happened, but nothing's been done yet.

So.

If you got devious about it and said, let's suppose that that people were trying to use my system that perpetrated fraud of some type or something.

Then if I start recording things where nothing's even been done.

I mean, come on. I don't, you know. Is anything going to happen?

I don't know. Right now. Right now, there's still just talk.

So the answer here is just because you've got your bid accepted.

No. There's no. You know, there's no solid evidence that anything is valuable is going.

This is our accountant thinking this, right? But you can tell from the way I'm dancing around.

Start dancing around. It gets tougher and tougher, right?

Uh, you know, as you get close to the line, it gets tougher and tougher to say, well, why aren't you doing it?

And this is what the general accepted accounting principles do, is they help us, uh, decide where these lines are and how.

And, and this is a this is an example of something we'll talk about called revenue recognition.

When are you going to recognize that basically a sale has been made here.

Right. And that and that that the, uh, the, the company has done something good and that kind of, uh, raises their.

Well. Race is there. I'm going to call them net assets.

Right. I'm going to call it assets minus liabilities is what I'm going to focus on.

Because if somebody prepaid you and you earn it, then your net assets go up because you discharged a liability.

You had made a promise to perform. And that was out.

And then what came in was forgiveness of your promise because you did it.

Okay. Perform the services.

How about now? Yes. Yeah, I have a card.

I don't know if it's exactly this, but one of the hats I wear is the chairman of a nonprofit.

And when people sign legal notes to pledge donations, we count that.

Yeah. I mean, in the homework I wrote, no, but I have put that because I know that this is what you did.

You get the homework here, right? Yeah. Yeah, yeah. You do the right thing. But we count those.

You just as as an asset. You do. It's a legal pleasure. Is that wrong.

According to that, in fact, you have to do that by generally accepted accounting principles.

Right. So what you just saw just a great example of how this how when you're walking through and all that it the where are we draw the line.

And so it differs depending on what kind of organization we're talking about.

So probably I'll give you a, I'll give you a, an attempted, uh, justification here.

Right. Well, you know, in nonprofits they're not they're not what's the exchange.

Right. You know, they're giving you know, what are they getting back actually getting stuff back.

You know, they're getting a feel good tax deduction.

Well they get a tax deduction with the tax deductions only a fraction of what they give.

Right. Right. So so they're out less. But so let's just look at that.

What do they get back. It's not the same kind of activity.

And so we don't use the same rules to judge it because it's like a uh or uh so let's go even further.

I mean, the main point of the nonprofit, instead of doing things for fees and services like here,

they raise money from what group of people and the beneficiaries are often a different group of people.

It's not like so our whole, our our basic notion of equal exchange of value all the time.

I'm still going to keep that. But what if somebody get when they give a donation and.

Not a hamburger, you know. You know, I think the size of the diner.

No. I'm kidding. Yeah, well, of course, that's a different story, right?

Yeah. The size of the donation. Well, I do. But, yeah, you get some submit.

Yeah. And so that's one reason that accounting for some nonprofits or governments is more difficult in some way,

because the nature of the underlying activity, it doesn't map so cleanly to just pure exchange.

I do something for you. You do something for me. That's it. You know, that's localize it.

All we care about is the value between us and nobody else and all that stuff.

That mindset fits better for a for profit.

Which is why. People would really doubt you.

If people hadn't developed these accounting techniques. You'd say, well, how does this even work for a nonprofit?

What is it? I wouldn't double it. I don't know. You know, equity doesn't work.

You use the same balance, but all the judgment calls and everything are different.

One of the biggest judgment calls. Also, this difference in profits is what you have to recognize in terms of on the balance sheet that, um.

If you go look at the Met in New York, look for their art collection on the balance sheet.

It's not there. It's not there.

Because the thinking is that, look, we if we're going to put stuff on the balance sheet, we're going to have to have numbers.

And what are they going to do with who owns it?

Or do we just yell on the starry, starry night? I can't remember one of these bad old things in the cafe.

Uh, in that cafe, the mad cafe. The night cafe.

The night cafe. That's what we have. Okay. That's not on our balance sheet.

Okay, I guarantee you, it's not about you. Why not?

Well, the judgment is just that it's not really the kind of financial asset that we want to do, just kind of accounting for.

That is. Is it valuable? Yes. Are we going to get some revenue from it?

Probably, yes. You know, if it's what you know, people go to the museum and do stuff, right?

But that's not its main purpose. You know, its main purpose, I guess, is educational.

This is worth discussing. And, uh, we're not going to sell that painting.

In fact, the person that donated it or whatever, however we got it, they might written it.

Or you can never sell this. Okay.

So why do I buy the right number down?

All right, so now you guys are probably great examples of where we started off, um, working this identity and rolling all.

But things get complicated really quickly. We're not good at it.

I'm not going to go into that much. We're going to ease into that.

I'm just sort of laying out the territory for what's going on and hopefully trying to motivate you to learn the nitty gritty,

the real nitty gritty, if we recognize it.

What would I have to do? You know why?

You know, how could I do that? And is it worth doing all of that?

Yes or no? Okay. Because there's been a big, uh, push in accounting.

Listen to this. Teaching accounting. Now, there's a lot of professors that say I'm not you out.

Why do they need to know? Debits and credits. Uh, it's a system that's lasted 500 years.

Maybe I'm not so arrogant that I'm going to say. What do you mean, need to know?

It's all and all. You have to do that anyway.

Okay. Now, when they perform the services at this point, you're going to say, hey, stuff's starting to get done, right?

They had an agreement. They had a contract. They worked under the contract.

They probably paid some people to do it. Yeah. I'm going to say we got assets of 15 and, uh, equities of 50, right.

They earned something. Oh, okay.

The next one. Um. They got paid.

Well, clearly we're going to recognize it. But what happens is.

What one asset cash goes up by 15 and another asset, the right to receive cash goes down by 15.

You know, as I do this and I started usually I go right into this part of the course is

just you keep going and I'm just going to go as fast as I think is appropriate.

Right. Because it's a complex system and you kind of just go around it around a while, then we'll get straightened out.

So I wouldn't worry about, uh, doing this and debits and credits for.

Yeah. Yeah. Um, what is a bill for service?

So, you know, like you, you go to your lawyer and you spend 30 minutes with them and they and then they send you a bill,

they say, okay, you owe me now that.

Right. So if they received $15,000 for a period of time that they spent in the city, wouldn't that just go to assets?

Well, part of it. Okay. Okay. So the 15th.

And so let's keep track of this carefully thing. Right.

Okay. So what happened was just.

What happened here? We was. We have two.

Two assets. This is.

Well, this is actually. Well, well, well. So we have two assets.

And then when we recognize that we have performed the services.

Okay. So so number 20 number.

Number 19. Let's do 19 first. Right. So what happened when we recognized that we performed the services.

Uh all right. So to see.

Start over. Okay.

Assets of the. We got one asset called accounts receivable.

We have another asset called cache. Okay.

These are our assets. Liabilities are involved here.

So we're going to have equities. And I'll tell you right now we might have things like common stock two different accounts here and retained earnings.

Don't. Get that.

So what that's going to be is this separates contributions from our owners from what happened by operating the company that we kept it.

Okay. So let's do 19 first in 19.

We said um. There.

They had the contract and they did the services. Okay.

And the cost of the services yet? So what happened was that.

Oh, I haven't done this is might get confusing. So that's what was 15.

Came in. And then we're sort of forced because debits have to equal credits.

To say that most most people doing this would think the following thing that well you know, if.

If everything closed down right now then that 15 would go out to the, uh, to the owners.

Right. So what goes out? Oh I see.

So what goes out, if you will, is a promise to give that 15 to the owners.

Right. So that's, this is this is number 19.

But now, look, we did that before we got any cash.

Right. I drew the line for recognizing things.

Not when it was all done and the services would perform and the cash was collected.

Uh, I said we're going to recognize it once the services perform.

Performed the cash not being collected. Is that is that factor in my decision?

Yeah, you know, it does.

But it is a factor in so much. I'm going to keep the whole thing out of the out of the, uh, accounting system.

No, it does not. Yeah. What I'm doing is, uh, what we're learning is accrual accounting.

Accrual accounting. Oh, no. It's a if it's velvet, it's not right.

Accrual. Accounting.

That's what we're wearing. So the cash is important but I don't think I don't know.

The word accrues accrue and defer to always father because we have all these words to make things harder than they are.

You know, just so obvious because everybody should be able to understand what's happening.

There'd be no barrier to entry. So we have to address things. So I think what it means is, okay, you're going to get cash in the future.

So you accrue or you bring it in I don't know, it's that's what we call but but the most important thing is I recognize this.

Before they collected the cash. And that's what that's what caused me to have to say what came in as a promise.

That's what caused me to say that. Okay. Now let's look at what happens in 20 when they actually collect.

Well when they collect in 20. Oh, by the way.

Now, now, this is this is what affects.

Their ending equity is the first one. I did.

The second one. What do they collect? The 15.

Well that's just cash came in.

And what went out was forgiveness of the promise.

Today. Cool. That's black.

If you're using cash basis accounting, not accrual accounting, then you wait to cash goes back and forth to say anything.

You don't recognize anything if cash hasn't come back? No.

The problem is, of course, that well, people could.

People could make their records sort of look arbitrary by timing, not the performance of the real stuff, but rather the cash flow.

This is why we did all this stuff on 165 Whitney Associates.

And the difference between value and cash flow.

See the difference between value and cash. And we said sometimes we can get less cash than the value we've created.

This is just an example of exactly that. Number 19.

They haven't gotten any cash. But we said they created value. Why would we do that?

Well because they got they did something. They got the right to receive cash in 165.

What do you suppose is what happened? Well, because time went by and the government now owes us.

And I know the way that we had to work a lot to try to figure out how we're going to portray this whole process.

But the biggest thing and the reason we did it was so that you would not divorce in your mind the cash receipt from the value going on.

And of course, they're connected eventually, right.

If we talk about financial things, it's sooner or later it has got to come out in cash.

Yeah. In the outflow in 28 represents them not having made a promise to give money because yes, this outflow of 50.

Yeah. That this interpretation gets tricky because you got to be careful about what you're saying and going in and out.

But I highly recommend going through the the Babylon stuff and the accounting words because I don't think I have.

Hey, I'm with you. Make sure that I actually put up the right button because I've changed a lot.

But there is a pull.

So the way that whole thing unwinds is you use this system to keep track of physical things, like, you know, you have a grade or something.

Grading comes in, grade goes out, grain comes in. Okay.

I can use this system to keep track of that. But then a big innovation was, you know what, you can also use this system to keep track of promises.

Something came in. You didn't pay. You promise to pay taxes.

That right there is showing you how powerful this double entry thing is, right?

I don't have to just keep track of stuff, you know? I can keep track of promises.

I can keep track of this weird thing.

Equity over here. Which.

I know again if it's.

Where you want to get with this is a very literal interpretation of equity.

You know, nothing gets equity that we didn't record.

So the the only thing equity tells me the book value of equity.

These are the books, not. The real and not the complete story.

Books are always. And literally, you know, there was a big step when people really started making books.

You know, when was that 1300 or something like that?

You had papers started being made in Europe and they built these books.

Okay. So that's what I think. Bookkeepers. That's what they would do. They would write stuff in books.

We don't do that anymore. We still call books. Okay.

But it's important to to to realize I'm looking at my books.

And those were those were compiled with the process that we're learning.

Now, I have to say, if I think about what my business is really worth, I might start here, but I'm going to say, all right, what stuff isn't included?

I'm trying to work up another introduction. I'll leave you with this, another introduction to this, which is, uh.

Um. Which is what? But what was I saying just before then?

All right. Somebody's got to keep track of what I say. And then, because I have these senior moment things is terrible.

Like when you walk into a room and you don't remember why you went there, you know, that's a big deal.

Um, well, I'll think of it. I'll think of it somewhere.

Okay. But, you know, but but the idea is, it's just amazing how this trick of writing stuff down on one side and the other side,

you know, how it just kept being invented? Uh, there was one of the high points was in 1894, this mathematician named Arthur Cayley.

People got all worried about when I have an account like this. What is that?

What does that mean? You know, this is like, I don't know, I don't know. They're keeping track of promises are still from people.

Two people. Right. But what is your equity?

Well, you don't really know what you're going to get out of the company till liquidates.

Oh, I know what it's going to say. So. So people who are emphasizing this one,

usually they and I would always say this before that there's two times when the equity really a book

equity really is what the company's worth when they just start and just before they liquidate.

So everything's in cash and then they're about to distribute.

And then I realized something I was wrong. When you just start.

You start with that idea. Right.

You have said the reason you start a business in the first place is you think you know something.

You think you have some capability to earn a profit. You have intellectual properties in your head.

That's not going to get recorded. So if I have a great idea, I can sell that idea to somebody.

Right. During the.com.

Uh, I'll leave you with this. With this story. You know, this this guy would have just sun he gather CEOs all the time.

Is that it? For years and years. And so, uh, I went to, um, I went to one of his a couple of scientists there.

They're gathering of the CEOs. And, um, it was right after the.com.

I call it a I call it the.com bomb occurred.

So right around 2021, 2022, and there were a bunch of CEOs from like brick and mortar places, Macy's and things like that there.

And these people were I interpreted as that were so happy because what would happen before,

as this start says, take it off now, they shouldn't have been so happy.

But this is what was happening at the time. This is before Amazon, before all this stuff.

Right? Somebody would come in with like a piece of paper that's an idea and said, oh, all this stuff, this, you're gonna you're going out of business.

You know Macy's up. Yeah. Who needs who who needs a a store.

You know that's that's stupid. And these people like.

How am I supposed to? You know, the guy wants $50 million to develop this second piece of paper?

Yeah. You. Yeah. Worked out pretty well for Bezos.

But anyway, um, next time, uh, I won't talk too much.

I'll try not to talk. I try, it's hard for me, but we'll just again, we'll start going bang,

bang through some debits and credits and see some in the statements and nitty gritty.

But but you know, you really, uh, you if you were so smart that you understood all the implications of what we did today.

Well, you're done. It's just, I don't know, smarter.

Besides blog. Do do do do.

Hey. Yeah. It was, uh.

Yeah. This question. I just yeah, I was waiting in line for these points.

So the only, I only divided the time by, um, the interest rate and not the growth rate either, because I was.

Wait, with the present value of perpetuity.

700, whose first payment starts at the end of the fifth period.

Yeah. Right. Yeah. So you got to really keep track of when is that okay.

Okay. Because the growth starts out here. Yeah.

And then so so the reason the reason we're doing this is because if you use these techniques to value a business, it's a new organism.

You have a you have a window that you look at to try to predict with.

That's after that the companies to which you don't know. So you make some assumptions.

Oh okay. Probably go.

