[Auto-generated transcript. Edits may have been applied for clarity.]
Well, you know she's not. Boston.

Three. Where you go.

Oh, yeah. Mhm.

You know. I don't know that I this. All right.

How are we doing? Okay. Nobody's frozen.

All right. Today. Okay.

You know, we're going to continue the example of, um, this is a little company that we formed.

And what are we going to do with it? Well, first of all, let's review what we did.

So, uh, we talked about how to form a company.

Right. And the legal rituals and so forth. You have to go through to do that.

And, um, but the, uh, operating agreement and then a certificate, the birth certificate, the certificate of formation, all that stuff.

Okay. And then we decided to start our own little ones, our own little LLC.

165 with the associates, you know, like 26 or something.

And so what I said, we went through one little exercise where, uh, I talked about, you know, where where we.

Where we raised the money. That we're going to hit next.

Okay. We decided we're going to invest in just U.S. government bonds, and that's going to be it.

I have a background question for you.

Most people or accounting people, when they think about starting a business, they think of it as starting when the capital was raised.

So they will say things like, well, you know, what are the assets of a company?

And they'll look at the value, they'll look at the cash that we wrote down at the end of the year.

Right. And uh, some time a few months ago or a year ago, the thought occurred to me, that's not right.

Because to start any company, what do you have to have first?

Capital? No. Before that idea.

An idea. You have to have an idea.

Right. Oh, we could do this. Where do you think that's going to be?

In the accounts statements? No where, but it's going to be nowhere.

All right.

So so right away, you know, you're going to get I'm trying to give you a sense that when we when we do accounting it's going to include some things,

but it's also going to exclude some things. So let's think about it.

What would we do if I said all right.

Well let's look at the wealth of our whole company after we've to what it was the idea, the ability to transact and all this stuff.

What, what what are we going to write down is the value of that, right.

Because when we do financial accounting, we got to have a dollar. No. Come on.

That me be a stupid thing to go through right now is surely when we actually raise the, you know, capital,

borrow money or whatever, we're going to have to make a case to somebody that, hey, this is something you want to invest in.

So we're going to have to communicate that idea. But it doesn't, you know, it doesn't do any good to to try to keep that in the company's records.

In some sense, the company is all about trying to see what was this a good idea or not.

Right. So right off the bat, whatever accounting we do is going to leave out the intellectual property that we carry into the company to begin with.

Now, for years and years, this didn't used to be such a huge thing, but now that's the main asset a lot of companies have.

Like think about Apple or Nvidia or Tesla or really funny, right?

Okay. So anyway, this is example Wikipedia. But we decided to form a company.

And then then you wanted me to do some accounting, but nobody said hey, write down the value.

The idea. We didn't think of that. Right? I didn't think of it until for decades.

Okay, then we're going to follow this thing all the way through.

So, uh, the first thing we had to do is we had to decide that it would be a good idea if the management kept some records.

Okay. And we started trying to program what records you want to keep.

Well, the cache okay. Number one. And really, um, in anticipation maybe of information that we might need or want to have when we go to liquidate,

you'd want to know what, where how much did each investor contribute?

Um, right. Now, that's not a thing, right?

I mean, cash is a thing, right? It's a right to do something.

But how much did each investor contribute? That's just information.

That's not a thing. There was only one thing, which is what we raised.

But we wrote down two things. We wrote down the cash, and then we wrote down.

We we imposed. Actually, we oppose this identity.

Right. And I tried to.

I tried to emphasize how important that is by making a mistake where the sum of the cash didn't equal to somewhere where it came from.

Yeah, that's that's a mistake. In this context, it's so obvious you can't even see.

It's like the error you're walking in, right? Who would do that?

Right now I could embed the setting in a little more, uh, complexity.

And you'll see, uh, that could happen pretty easily.

So, uh, I'm changing all the accounting origins stuff, by the way.

But if you want to go back and start going through the scribes of that law, it will take you through a setting where, um, things are inconsistent.

The property that I was trying to convey to you, what I wrote down.

Here's a list of the cash and here's the equity,

is that you want to impose a consistency requirement on the lists that I keep on the accounting that I do,

at least it should be consistent with itself. It may not be right.

I could have left out some cash and left out a person and it might look okay.

Might not like that, of course, but what actually happened? Okay, that can still happen, but at least it shouldn't be self-contradictory.

Okay, so that's what this is about.

And we're going to see how that go.

But I want to add two things that you can post the identity number one to impose consistency on things you're doing.

But number two, we already had to bring just sort of pure information in what's going to happen when we start recording things.

If we're going to keep track of two things at once.

Stuff like cash and liabilities and things like that.

But also we're going to keep track of information about that stuff that we write down.

It was very natural when I raised the money to write down. Well, you raised $50,000.

Okay. Also write down where it came from. This is the most biggest source of error in thinking about accounting statements.

Ever. Always. If you have somebody that doesn't know accounting, they can handle processing this stuff.

They know what cash is. Do they know what equity is?

No. They will think it's a thing. They will think about the instrument that's used to signify that like a share of common stock or a bond or,

you know, liabilities like that, but they won't think about it.

That notes information about where did those assets. Okay.

So I'm going to keep covering on that the whole time. That's the biggest, biggest, biggest mistake people make.

They don't really understand what's going on.

When we start keeping the records because we're keeping track of stuff, we're also putting information into the system that we're going to process.

Okay, here we go. Now we do this, but I assume that, uh, a good thing would be since we're going to this is going to play out over 30 years.

I don't know, I'd be at 102.

So I'm not sure I would really count on that if I were you, but it would be a good idea if the management issued some sort of periodic reports to you.

Something could happen, you know, building burned down or whatever. Okay.

And again, these reports are going to have two things in them.

One is facts, but another is a set of explanations is going to be built in.

But the explanations all have to fit within the context.

Assets minus liabilities equals equity. There's a framework within that I'm going to use to communicate that information.

And that framework count some things. Does it count other things.

You have to know that okay. All right.

So. Now let's look at let's start doing some applying the this accounting identity.

And um for the light situation here.

Let me see if I can control the lights here. Hmm. Presets I have show up in documentation room controls, lighting scenes.

Uh oh. Um. Lecture one. Or presentation to know you're not to sleep.

Lecture. Oh, that's what you do. Or whatever. Shape control.

And I'm in there. So I used to start class by saying, you know, if if you're hungry, you want to eat in class, that's okay.

Unless I'm hungry. Then, you know, have like, you know, if you're thirsty and drink something.

And then, like I said, if you're sleepy. You know, you know, go to sleep because I can't.

If I'm sleepy, I can't go to sleep. And then I asked, did anybody does anybody even been in class with the professor?

Went to sleep. It's what it looks at the Federal Reserve and said, yeah, it was student presentation day, and.

The professor would sleep. Okay. Bye. So anyway, um, so you go to sleep if you do that.

All right. Now let's let's start off with, with with how we're doing this.

Now, again, this is why when I write the accounting identity, I write it like this.

That's defined to be equities. So think ledger better I know you're a math minor or something like this right.

Yeah. Like. All right. So what's the difference between an equation and identity?

Um. Oh goodness. Yeah. It's a TR was a hard one.

Yeah, the hard one. Well, how about this?

An equation could be wrong. Right. An equation can be wrong.

What's like the most famous equation? You know any equation. Anybody with an equation can equals m c squared.

That's my favorite one. Everybody I'll tell you what. It's amazing.

Did you ask somebody for an equation. That's the one they did right.

So v equals MC squared. So what is that.

You have a physics person here I do. So where. Physicist.

What does that say. Remember you don't have to be a physicist.

You know what that says. What this is. That's what energy.

Mass. Speed of light squared. That could be wrong.

Okay. You can separately assess the energy in something you know.

In fact, I think that's why. You know what? They set up the first nuclear test out in Nevada or.

No. Yeah, yeah, yeah. In Nevada. So my wife's family live close to there.

It's it's terrible, you know. But anyway, we'll get into that. But, you know,

teller and some of these people were arguing each other where they actually was actually going to explode the whole atmosphere officer of the Earth.

So that why? Because they knew their equation could be wrong.

What they can calculate when using these equations is like how much energy they expected to be released.

But they knew it could be wrong. That's not a definition. That's an equation. Turns out to be a pretty good one, right?

In that that given that given the, uh, measurement tools at our disposal, we haven't really found, I don't think, big contradictions in this so far.

But that's not to say that tomorrow somebody could come up with a better way to assess the speed of light, let's say more accurately the sum.

And so you know what? Not quite right. That's a that's an equation.

Can't happen with that identity. Okay.

This is it. So you know says assets liabilities and equity separately assets minus liabilities defines equity.

The math anyway the amount of it. So when I started making those lists and I made, you know, a list of the cash, what did we do?

We said, well, wait a minute. Your list of equity should equal your list of cash.

What if I left out some cash? Well, then my list of equities would be equal to whatever I write down is what's covered by this.

Anything I don't write down. Not covered by this. Okay.

So this is like the accounting definitions and systems.

It's like looking at uh well here's the here's the best here's the best one.

I like physics things, you know. So when.

And by the way, when you graduate, if you haven't done this already, life goes on.

If you can, if you can take a trip with Yale travel or biochem or what it is called now Yale Education,

I what those things are great because I get to do that.

You know why I get to do that? Things for Yale alongside well my my new research from Oklahoma State and Stanford.

Oh, and Yale, you know, why would you get to be a tenured professor at Yale if you don't have a Yale degree?

They give you one. It's kind of one of those quaint little traditions that's at the same time.

Well, that's kind of cool and kind of ridiculous at the same time.

You know, we got a lot of those things buried in the book. But the idea, I think, was partly stemmed from the fact that way back in the day,

if you didn't have a Yale degree, where does your degrees have been from? These lesser known places like Harvard.

Right. Anyway, so actually, because I'm an alum, I get to go on.

So we, um, we I went on wanting to see the total eclipse in Chile in 2001 or whatever,

and we and we went with ESRI and she's the head of physics person.

We went to all these, uh, observatories all over Chile.

So it was a really cool. And so do you remember when they took they took the picture of the black hole at the center of the Milky Way.

Do you ever just see that it was it. Yeah. So it's a big deal right.

So in the picture, the black hole at the center of the Milky Way that we had,

they had just told us that that the radio telescopes that we're looking at taking this picture,

they don't capture visible light, they capture energy in some other spectrums we can't see.

Okay. And so they put this data together from all over the world.

And then they point to a monitor and they said, oh, and there's a picture of the black hole of the universe.

I said, well. As you just told me.

What? That's a Photoshop of the black hole of the surface universe, right?

Because you you. It's compiled from data from about one that we can't see.

You can't show it to me. Oh, yeah.

Yeah, it's. I don't like to say Photoshop, but that's what it was.

Right. So my point is that whenever they're trying to take all that data and make it relevant for us, they change it in some fundamental ways.

I have no idea what they buried, what they didn't or whatever, because in the end, what are they doing?

They're making a nice picture. But I love the fact that they tried to show me that they're showing me a picture.

Uh, not a picture anyway. So the accounting does that all the time.

That's basically what I'm saying is we have a certain lens that we see things, and we know it includes some things, that it excludes others.

You really have to keep track of that. Okay. Because that could end up in some really weird looking financial statements or really weird

looking pictures that are sort of more the result of the camera we have than the underlying.

So what we're going to we'll hammer on that all semester.

Okay. So here's what I thought we would do. We would take our 50,000 and go buy a debt security U.S. government bonds.

Okay. And, uh, I did a little research.

Now, by the way, if you go on the the class, uh, page ought to have all these documents that you can share with me if you want or whatever.

So if I go astray, let's see. But let me see if I can go to the US Treasury side.

What happens when I do that? Okay, here it is.

Okay. I provided a link to. Um.

This is the US Department of Treasury. Uh, data.

Something like this. And here are some day to day our daily treasury par yield curves.

What does that mean?

Well, that what that means is they do auctions all the time of these promises that the government to pay people back, and then they wait and see.

Well, how much are they paid for those promises? And then reverse engineer interest rates just like we've done.

Okay. What's the interest? What are those things? Price to yield. Now usually somebody and econ student starts asking me about inflation.

And I say, well we're not going to deal with that here. I'm going to assume everything's real rates.

Notice the second heading up there is real yield curve rates.

Okay. So what happens with that is they have some bonds that have some sort of inflation protection built into them.

That is the cash flows are tied to inflation. So they're in more in real terms.

And so that's another word I got. I'm not going to use that right. But I just thought I'd mention it.

Okay. So let's look and see daily car yield curve rates okay.

We want okay. The current month. Yeah. Current month is good.

No no no we want 2026 because oh wait the current month what it is have.

Let's see what it shows us. Current month.

No results. Not I want to download the CV, get updates to this content.

Uh, okay. Wait a minute. Pull up the.

I got the click apply. Oh. Thank you.

I always forget that. Very good. Apply.

Apply. Where is it? Hmm. No results found.

Oh, I guess it's probably because in February, you know, we're in February now.

Okay. Let me see. Click apply. It says right here after selecting a data type.

Click apply. Daily Treasury rates yield curve rates.

I'm just going to show you the results because this is if we had enough we'd get them.

But I looked at these things yesterday and I'll show you what I got.

Let's see. It's over here. The long.

Uh, second. Wait a minute. Just so you're going to get a table that I hope looks like.

Yeah, it looks like this. All right. Let's see. Uh.

View full screen. Now.

But now I have to turn on everything to return.

Unhide and hide. Okay, so you get a table that looks like this table in this spreadsheet over here.

Right. So this is for January.

So you get now across the across the top or down the columns.

Those are different maturity dates.

So they offered they auctioned off stuff that matures in one month, in two months in three months and four months and six months in one year.

Oh, one and a half months. That's weird. But still, I don't know why they do that.

Now. That's the second column, but okay, fine. Three years.

For five years. Seven years, ten years, 20 years, 30 years.

Okay, so that's a whole bunch of different promises that mature at different dates.

And I think I mentioned it, but I'm not going to emphasize this too much.

But if you if you look the the rates are different across, you can read it as you read across a row.

That's the term structure that's reflecting the term structure of interest rates.

And usually that the longer rates are higher than the shorter ones.

Okay. Because the idea was there's more uncertainty in the longer run than the short term.

That's that's our intuition. But sometimes it flips.

Sometimes the yield curve gets inverted and the short rates are higher than the long rates.

That's a weird thing if you think about it.

And you know, what's happened is the macro economists study this and they find that every time that happens a recession is soon to follow.

But anyway, not going to work. We're going to pick one.

And I propose we pick 30 years.

So I went I went over here, uh, and I went out to the 30 year column, and I went down to the last trading date, and that's where I got the 4.87%.

Okay option. What the [INAUDIBLE]?

I'll make this bigger. Got it.

Shortcuts are enabled. That's really great. Okay.

That's where I got the 4.87. All right.

Now I'm going to assume that the coupon rates and these are these things are all talked about in semiannual terms.

Okay. So I'm going to assume that the coupon rate is 4%.

All right. That'll work for us. Okay. It's good for us to do that.

Now almost always the coupon rate is not exactly equal to.

Even if they try to make the coupon rate equal to the interest rate, they don't know what the interest rate is until they auction the thing off.

So there's always going to be some amount of error. But I just want to assume it's 4% okay.

Now, what I want to ask you is that I'm going to talk about the nature of how this transaction, the form of this transaction.

So we got our 50,000 bucks and we want to buy.

$50,000 worth of Treasury bills, right?

So right now, our balance sheet looks like this. Assets 50 in cash equities, 50 in LLC members or something like that.

And what are we going to do? We're going to send this 50 off to the government.

My question is I want to be detailed about what's going to come back to us.

What are we going to be able to buy with our 50? How should we think about that?

Well, do you think the government is going to give us an especially good deal?

No. Do you think that we're going to accept an especially bad deal?

No. So it's got to be kind of a fair trade at the time.

So what's a fair trade? Meaning we're trading money through time.

We're giving the government now $50,000. So what do we have to have back for that?

To be fair. A stream of cash flows that has a certain property.

When are we giving up to 50 grand? Right now. The stream of cash flows we get back better have a present value of $50,000.

Right. That's what a fair deal is. Does that really matter?

This is characteristic of this whole class. We developed these little ideas.

Okay. And you first, your first job is to gobble up the idea.

Okay. You got to go. You got to understand the idea.

But then we're going to start putting it together in ways that, you know, you don't think it's that hard, right?

Every little piece isn't that hard.

It's just we're going to start putting them all together and putting them all together in a framework and so forth.

So when you get one of these little pieces, like discounting or something, the point is, you know, master the algebra.

But we're going to go where I want you to learn is what's happening.

Why is it happening? What am I doing here? What? How am I thinking about this?

Okay. So just a heads up.

All right. Okay. So the present value of the cash flow stream should be $50,000.

Well, what cash flow stream? It's a it's a coupon bond.

So the cash flow is determined by the face value and the coupon rate.

Right? But I already know the coupon rate. The coupon rate is 4%.

So here we go. So what's going to happen with the present value here.

And I've set this whole computation up for 30 years. By the way that means I need 60 periods right.

In 30 years there's 60, uh, half years.

Okay. So what's going to happen?

Every six months I'm going to get a coupon.

That's the face value. Times the interest rate times.

This suggests a half interest rate divided by two. All right.

So so I just put I just did it that way. I just set up the interest rate I'm going to divide by by two.

And I did that because I marked the periods 123 and four.

So my periods are marked in half period terms.

Right. It's first six months seconds of clusters. All right everybody okay with that.

Yeah. So you see, I mean, I haven't introduced a big different thing yet, right?

But I'm really starting to use what we're doing a lot. Okay.

All right. And and so that that formula.

Is the coupon payments are going to occur over 60 periods.

And then at the end, what am I going to do. I'm going to get the face value back.

Okay I don't know if you can read the. The, um.

Okay. We get to face value. Doo doo doo doo doo doo doo right at the end.

So if I click on this. All right. What to do? Hey hey hey.

Whoa. It's face value right here.

This is the face value, right? So I have it all set up, but it's all a function.

Of what? The face value. Once I have the face value, I can plot out all the cash flows.

And what is this little person over here? Well, I'm taking the present value.

I'm calculating the total cash flow. And then I'm taking the present value that each bit by bit.

Okay. So that's just the coupon rate, the existing cash flow divided by.

And I got to be a little careful. Uh, the interest rate times I have like the coupon rate got right.

Everybody okay with that? Okay. That's the present value.

The first cash flow payment. So, for example, if we had a $1,000 face value bond, then the coupon is going to be 20.

And the present value of the first coupon rate of the first coupon payment at the interest rate is going to be 1953.

With that, and the total present value of that bond is going to be $863.53.

Okay. Cool with that. So how do we figure out how much can we.

You know what. How many bonds can we buy for our $50,000?

Well, we just have to figure out what would be the face value of the bonds that we could buy that has a present value of 50,000, right?

Okay, so one thing you want to notice here is that, um, I put in $1,000 to the face and the present value is eight, 63 and 53.

Why is that? Why is the present value less than the face value?

Yeah. Like inflation. No no no no answers on here.

Face value less than less than the coupon rate.

Less than 1000. Oh you guys.

You guys need to discount more. Yeah. Go ahead. Zinc hits the coupon rates less than the interest rate.

Yeah, the coupon rate is less than the interest rate.

The interest rate is 4.87. The coupon rate is four.

Divide both of them by two. Right. Right. And so we've done discount bonds and premium bonds on that.

So this is another example of how when you do calculations like this.

You know you don't. You know, I didn't have to do 60 different multiplications and a bunch of stuff.

I now, because of the computation power at my disposal,

really have the luxury to think about what the [INAUDIBLE] is happening here with these numbers, right?

That's what you need to be doing every time. What's going on? Make observations.

Huh? And you know, right now, when you first do this, you don't know what to compare to what?

But you want to. You want to develop as you guys.

You learn some quantitative technique in finance world. You want to try to develop intuition about what's happening.

Okay. There's kind of a pithy saying about that, which is that if you don't know what's happening in the in the model, then the model runs you.

You don't run the model. Uh, we can't be having that, right?

We're going to be running the model. You know, the model is input to us.

It's not dictating what I do. If that's going to happen, if you're going to use it,

if you're going to use something quantitative that way you have to understand not just, oh, that's the result, but like, what is this?

How do I how do I fold that into my decision making and put in all kinds of checks along the way?

Does this make sense? Does this make sense? Yeah.

Because I know that if the coupon rate is lower than the interest rate, bond should sell it at a discount.

Okay. Now, why is that important? Well, right away, if I, if I know that if I put $50,000 here.

No no no no no no no, don't put $50,000 there, I mean.

Always goes in blue. If I put $50,000 here, what's the present value of that going to be?

43,176. Uh, our 50,000 will buy more bots than than a face value of 50.

All right. Okay. I love these things.

All right. I feel so powerful.

You think so? Okay. All right. So one way I can do this is just play around.

Well, okay. Could we get $60,000 face?

No, that's too much. Whatever. Whenever we buy these things, the face value of the total amount that comes back is going to be less than 60.

And then I can say, well, what about, uh. Well, let me see.

Look, it's it's only a little more than that. How about 57?

Uh, that. No, that's not enough. Oh, I'm honing in on it.

58. Oh, look, I have, uh, I have a present value.

That is everybody. Is everybody looking at the right thing to highlight that somehow that I.

That I'm trying to make that number into 50,000. I'm almost there.

Right. In fact, I'm going to say it's, uh, 50.

57. 800. Tulo.

Did I say 57? That's 50. Wait a minute.

I lost string in 58.

Okay, that's a little too much. 50. Seven.

Uh, 950. Oh, a little too.

Okay, I can keep doing that. Right. Until, um, I hold it on the answer, or I can use the, um.

Go see. Hang on just a second. Church in return.

Okay. So I'm going to take you through this because it's it's very good.

I can use go seek. And now this doesn't work on the web version of Excel.

This only works on the desktop. Come on. I said zoom here.

Okay. So let's just I just want to walk you through the steps, because first of all, you need to have, like, data analysis.

Um, uh, the data tab, I think it is, um, laid out.

Okay. So this is our spreadsheet. So F1 holds the present value.

The cash flows, the bonds, the cash flows of the bonds are determined by face value and coupon rate.

Right. Again, another way that you think about when you deal with quantitative things is.

Like we have this. Who else is doing this?

Okay, so what we have is this present value engine.

Calculating engine. And what you really want to understand.

Any time you have a quantitative technique like this is you want to understand what are the inputs inputs.

And what are the outputs. So our present value engine takes a stream of cash flows or its cash flow stream and spits out a number.

That's the present value. Well it takes a stream of cash flows.

It takes a definition of what now is. Um, and it spits out the, the present value of that cash flows at the time we tell it to make sense.

Okay. So whenever you do a calculation reformulated, you got to stop.

What are the inputs? What are the outputs?

That's why I like doing everything in Excel because it makes you structure the inputs and then it shows you what the outputs are.

So, so almost without having to think about it too much you're into this mindset okay.

All right. So this is what you do. Um.

Uh, this is a different example. This is a phrase for the courtroom. And look at the interest rate.

The interest rate was really low at the time, right?

1.7% interest rates have gone up. And here's how to do it under the data tab under what if analysis.

There's a thing called goal seek right and then goal seek.

Looks like this is a set. So F1. So I want to set the present value equal to $50,000.

By changing what? But changing the face value. The face values in cell B1.

Right. And I hit okay and did okay.

It generated in this case bonds with the face value of 29.

Uh 6657 could be purchased.

Wow. That's because there's a big spread in between the coupon rate of four and a quarter and the interest rate of just less than two.

So it's a big discount. Okay, so.

You know. So that's how to use, um, to use.

Go see. Now then what I have to do is go over here.

I can keep I can keep doing this. I did it pretty easily the other day, or I could.

Where's unhide people review unhide at home.

Maybe it's view. Do you see the unhide thing?

Because I've hidden some. Well, whatever.

Let's just the, you know, the right pages or the.

I actually I outfoxed myself in it too much.

Oops. Okay nine.

20. That's too much.

$9 and 92.

Uh. Almost done. Right. So we're going to be able to buy about, um, 1.5.

Uh, a little more than, oh, let's say $0.60, let's say.

Uh, $0.60. Uh, more that.

All right. I'm not going to keep you in a throat, but let's see if we're going to be able to buy 57 bonds with a face value of 57 902.

Cool. Okay. So let's do that.

So we send the government the money, the buyer 50 grand.

And they acknowledge that we've got here 50,000.

And they said you have just bought bonds.

These are these kind of bonds that have a face value of 57.

902 the coupon rate of 4%, payable semiannually.

30 year maturity date. Very cool with that.

Okay. That's great.

Great. Great, great. So how do you.

What do you want me to change? My. Our records. I want to go back to the accounting.

Do you want me to change the records? How much cash do we have now?

After we bought the body. We have zero.

We sent it all to them. Right? So if my list of assets is a representation.

Do. Of what? What we have under control.

That is our benefits. That's no longer true. That's not right.

So. So that's got to go to zero.

Right. Now the accounting identity says, uh.

You got to make it fit the identity. So does the equity go to zero?

That's one way. No. Right now the equity doesn't go to zero.

So what happened? You to do this again and again and again.

Nothing happened to equity. Nothing happened to liabilities.

Therefore, something happened to our assets.

What happened? Yeah.

Just the value. Just go to a different category. Yeah. We got to recap.

We got to reclassify. We got to tell people. We got to tell people we don't have cash anymore.

We have these US government securities. Okay. So in fact, I'm.

And I'm going to record that transformation. Uh, T-bills.

Now, what number do you want me to put in?

Hey. What's the only number I can't put in?

5050, right? I can't put anything other than 50 here.

I don't care about the face value. I don't care about all that stuff. I'm working the county identity.

The county identity tells me you don't even have to think about this.

If 50 and cash went out and nothing happened to your equity, then the asset that you got back has to be worth 50.

I mean, that's the book value. All right.

You're that. Cool.

Now let's think about it. What makes sense? Right. We started this whole thing by saying, what's a fair deal?

The fair deals when the present value of the two things are the same. So hey kind of guy didn't he didn't hurt me there.

Right. It actually got me to do something that's consistent with my economic view of the world.

Remember, I started by saying, the government is going to give us a good deal or we're going to accept a very bad deal, though, right?

So by directing me to write down 50, I just kind of captured that.

I, I sorry, I'm assuming that that logic is good.

But I didn't automatically create value just by changing one set of cash flow and present value 50 for another,

with the cash flow present value of 50. I didn't create value right?

I didn't destroy it either. Right.

In. Okay.

Everybody cool. So that's what our balance sheet looks like right after we say.

This is our balance sheet. For some people call it a statement of financial position.

I really hate that. You know, I hate that because it's a little too wishful thinking.

Okay. It's a statement of intent. So really what we're trying to convey is a balance sheet is at a point in time, right?

Okay, fine. But you're going to be careful with all of the analogies with physics and stocks and flows and ins and outs.

You know, accounting people love them. You need to understand you need to have some of it.

But I'll show you where you go wrong. Right. So here's where the stocks and flows.

Things go wrong. It's sort of true generally, but I did something different.

I'm working this identity. I'm not just looking at one thing at a time and talking about where, but where did I start?

Where to go out. How much was left? I'm looking at a bunch of things and they have to line up.

I'll show you that later. Okay. All right.

Now I want to look who a year ahead, I don't know. And let's see. Let's go.

Six months ahead. For a second. All right.

So this is today. This is ta ta 26 and six months from now at six to that, you get August 2nd, 2026.

Now, what's our balance sheet going to look like at the end of the day there.

Remember, they're paying every every six months.

They pay us. Okay. So we're going to get some cash coming in.

In fact, we're going to get $1,158.03.

Okay. So now my cash.

Is going to be 1000. What 1158.

And $0.03. How about my bonds? What?

What are they? Yeah. 50. Just 50.

50. Very tempting, isn't it? Isn't it?

Isn't it? Isn't that the face value, though, which you paid it or that?

Sorry. When you get paid at that maturity. Well, we got to be.

This is where this is. Why? Like, we're really being careful with these timelines.

So let's think about what's happening in terms of timelines. We got 60 periods here, right?

And this was time zero. And so we're getting $1,158.03.

Okay. Dot dot dot dot dot. And then we're getting 1001 58 plus the face value.

And I can't remember the face value was 50.

57 902. So the last cash flow we get should be, uh, 1059.

Oh 16. Let's just see if the if I can add still or if that's.

Okay. 59 oh 5963.

Okay, fine. Six. Some rounding. That's this. All right.

All right. And what we said was the present value of the future cash flows at this point in time.

Wright was 50. PV of all that is 50.

But six months later, I'm not at zero anymore. So things have happened, right?

Things have happened. One thing that happened is that I got this was my red one.

I like a red. One thing that happened is I got this payment that's now in my pocket.

Another thing that happened though, was time is now here.

So. So what I want to look at. I want to look at the present value of the remaining cash flows of the remaining cash flows.

The remaining cash flows are all these.

Right. Yeah, but it's tricky because I've also shifted that I'm since I move forward in time.

I've kind of work with where I look. I'm going to get paid the big amount.

Not in 60 periods, 59.5 periods.

I got some cash and I move through time. Ooh.

So what I need to do. I mean.

You know. So what I need to do is. I guess I have to do I have to do a new present value calculation, I do, I, I mean, I'll tell you right now.

Yeah, yeah, you do it in practice, but, uh, it's just sort of one way to get you to think about what happens when you move through time, right?

Let's do it. Kind of a different way of looking at it.

Let's look at it in more. Uh, inch by inch.

So let me ask you this. What is the interest during the first six months?

Uh, on this transaction. So that is what did we do?

We let the government $50,000 at 4.87% compound.

And so again, that's what we did. So I could say, what should the interest be over the first six months that so it should be $50,000.

Times 4.87% divided by two.

And that should be the interest, right. Because that was the substance of the deal.

Right. Substance. Substance versus form.

You know, the form of the transaction was we got these coupon bonds at the rate that I don't know, I want to know economically what happened.

We loan the government $50,000 at 4.87%.

That's the substance of it. It had all these other trappings with a language of the border and escrow.

I mean, I don't care about that. No, I want the substance. I want the economic substance of what's happened.

Okay, so somebody multiply that out for me, right? I'll do it right here.

Okay. So it's equal to $50,000 times.

Uh. Uh, one.

Plus the interest rate. What did I say is, um, 44.8 7% divided by two.

Okay. Bingo. Now, what did it do?

It auto filled. What the [INAUDIBLE] is that? Stop auto filling.

What? Where did it raise that? To the 30 something power and just get off me!

No, that's not right. 000, I see.

Wait a minute. Maybe it's like this. Maybe. Let me do it. Like this point.

Oh. 487.

What am I doing wrong? Oh, come on, I want to find out what it's like.

I got 1217. Oh, you know what I'm doing.

This is not the one. The one doesn't belong there, right?

I'm trying to calculate the interest. The interest, not the interest.

And the principal. Right, okay. The interest. Aha! 1000 to the is what you got?

Oh, thank God you got to watch me with numbers. This is why when I did a finance business, they never let me do the actual numbers for cash.

What's going on? Okay. Yeah. We had an Alaska guy that did that.

All right. So the number is $1,217.50.

But look, we only got paid.

The coupon was 1001 5803.

That's less than the interest cost group that we knew that was going to happen, right.

We knew that was going to happen because selling at a discount means what it means.

The coupon payments don't cover the interest cost. Right now you see it that we're having to calculate what that is.

Okay. So so what's the, uh what's the shortfall?

1000. What is it?

1002 17.5.

And the cash we got was 1001 50.

Eight period so far.

Oh, God. 9 to 5. So, $59.50.

It is. What? The interest cost that they didn't compensate is for.

So what does that mean? Well, they owe it to us.

Another way to put it is if you walked out six months and you sold that bond and the market hadn't changed,

the interest rate that the market imposed was still 4.87%, compounded semiannually that bond and sell it for 50,000 anymore.

It's selling for $50,059.50.

Show you how it works. Right.

Okay. 51035 1711.

Oh. I think that's a familiar number. For backwards.

Forwards. Every conviction. Look at that.

That is. The bar.

Okay, so now my total assets I'm calculating would be 51,002 1753.

It's complicated. Some of it's cash, but some of it is the bond to art.

So if you go through this calculation.

Uh, well, think about this, uh, a bunch of different ways.

If we loan somebody 50,000, uh, 4.87% compounded semiannually in the first six months, the interest we should earn is we calculated $1,217.50.

That's not what we got paid. But if we earned it, that must mean something else happen.

Okay. Yeah, it did happen. The value of the bond changed.

The value of bond changed because what we went through with that one cash flow has been paid off,

but we're closer to the big payment at the end than we were before, right?

So you see what I mean when I say that you can't possibly intuit all this stuff, right?

You have to know what you're trying to do with the calculations and,

and then proceed very carefully so that you're not using Excel to make what I used to call mistakes at the speed of life.

Right. Because I put in the wrong formulas, I hit enter. It could just.

Give me thousands and thousands of wrong things right off the bat.

So I really have to control. Okay. Oh.

All right. Let's go back here. Hmm?

Uh, yeah. How do I want to?

How do I want to balance this thing? All right.

So my total equities this is total assets.

Total equities. All right, well, I know, I know what the total has to be, right?

Because that's the that's the I imposed the identity. So I know the total.

The total is 51, 217, 53.

Right. Because this thing and this thing have to be equal or defined to be the same,

that now you might, now you might, this might, but they're defined to be the same.

Okay. So once I get the total now the accounting part is I have the number.

What is it. How do I want to categorize it.

Well I mean I kind of like keeping track of I kind of like keeping track of what I raised from the members separately.

Members. Contributions. Does that make sense?

But I have to add something else, right?

I have to add another. Uh, 50.

I have to add another 1000 to 1.

753. Right.

What am I going to call it? Well, we earn something, right?

We earn something by buying this bond and holding it for six months.

Did we pay anything out? No, we just kept it.

We put it in a jar in the dean's office. Right? So I'm going to call this.

Retained earnings. Okay.

So go pull up your favorite.

And this is another thing you should be doing just every once in a while, every week.

Pull up 2 or 3 sets of financial statements.

Always take your favorite company and go into if it's public,

and go into the investor relations and it'll show you the 10-K or 10-q or something like some financial statement.

I mean, just look at it. And it's going to get you used to the organization and what's going on will also bring to life.

So this I don't know about you, but I find this incredibly abstract, right?

It's incredibly abstract, all that. It's all the storytelling that I've done over the last hour.

I mean, come on. Right. Like the other.

Yeah. A quick question about 1 to 1 7.5.

So just to get this clear, the total cash flow that you're getting paid from the bond is 1,158.03.

Yes. Semiannually. And the present value of that cash flow.

Yeah. 1130 is 1217.

What you should theoretically be getting paid based on the.

No. Well that's what we have to earn to actually earn the interest rate okay.

That's what we have to earn. Yeah. So another way I you know, I started off by talking about how the cost of buying the bond changed.

And from a, I started off from the point of view of the, uh, of the balance sheet here,

but I could have I, I surprised myself, so you should do it a different way.

And if I knew how to, um, unhide all these different unhide.

Oh thank God unhide. Right. You're paying a discount because you're getting less than the current interest rate that current borrow.

The coupon rate is less than the interest rate. Yeah. You have to be very, very careful with that.

So you don't mix those two that you're getting a lower coupon rate than what the interest rate.

Yeah. You never get. And so therefore you're paying a discount.

So what's happened is what's happening is some of the final face value payment at the end.

Like if I go look at this, these um well here here's a way to another way to look at it that I got this cash flow in this cash flow columns.

Right. So in total I'm going to get paid from the coupon payments.

Um. Coupon.

Oh, [INAUDIBLE]. I the coupon payments are going to be approximately the same.

I so look up how they're going to be.

I look down here. Um, 68 three 2389 plus one more.

Okay, so so the total amount of cash that I'm going to get over the whole period of time from the coupon payments is,

let's call it, uh, let's call it 69,500 or something like that.

The total cash that I'm going to get from the face value payment is.

59 901 60. While those two numbers are not the total interest cost and the total principal and the total amount of the principal the lot,

they are not that the government did not borrow $57,901.60 at 4%, compounded semiannually.

If that was true, then every coupon payment would just cover the interest cost, and the face value would be a return of the principal.

Okay. I mean five. That's if that's true. It's not true. So we have to distinguish the principal of the loan.

How much did we load the government and what interests are we earning from that that had to be separated from how we label the cash flows.

That's accounting. That's accounting.

That's why you have to do accounting. I can count the cash, but I can't account for it.

Right? I can't account for and the account for the story that I want to tell you that's

happening with this transaction is these people loaned the government $50,000 at 4.877%,

and the tide went on and they got cash paid and all that stuff, and it all worked out.

But that's this. That's how I'm going to describe it. I'm going to describe the total interest cost as the total interest and pay on the $50,000.

I'm going to account for the principal of the loan. The math and the math they really borrowed was 50,000.

The form of it was all kinds of screwed up stuff. But I love this.

I like your faces. Your faces are appropriately. Stunned in some way or, you know, it's good.

It should be because we that this is.

Whoa. Right. You know, we we we took these.

You know, probably I'm just guessing if you're doing the present value calculations.

I don't know if I can do this. I could do this. I can do this. Okay. Yeah, you can do that.

But are you really in control of it? Because when we started doing the accounting for it, we really had to know what story are we going to tell?

And I whovian a lot of the discounting math. I will be in some economic intuition here.

There I whovian some what am I going to label something.

This is this is incredible, right? But the big thing and the reason that I do the 165 Whitney so we're going to stop here.

We're going to keep doing this for a while. So you get more used to get more used to it.

The biggest thing is that the value flow produced by this organization.

In any period is not equal to the cash flow.

It's not equal to the cash flow. It's related to the cash flow stream as a whole.

Right? It's related, but it's not equal to the cash flow.

In fact, I can tell you already why it's not because I'm saying the value created was $1,217.53.

The cash flow was only the interest, the 1150 803.

Value is also created, if you will, by moving six months closer to the final payoff.

Part of that final plan, also compensating us for interest.

See? So we said all that stuff.

I've said all this stuff, and I know because I've been interested, but there's like 15 things that you kind of have to follow through.

And it's quite true, all that stuff, you know, and until you start doing it a few times,

there's no way you can, you can, you can just get sort of pulled us out of wherever.

Yeah. If this is a premium phone. Yeah. So you decrease.

Great. Exactly. You're thinking good. So we got a case of a discount bond.

What about a premium bond? If the coupon rate would have been 5% instead of 4.8, or make it six or something.

Go through the spreadsheet to play with that. You can just change the coupon rate and see what happens if I tell you what's going to happen.

Right. We go to buy $50,000 worth of bonds. We're not going to be able to buy at face value 50.

We're going to have to buy at face value less than 50. And then what's going to happen is every time we get a coupon payment that represents,

it's sort of like an annuity that represents cover to cover their interest cost and pay down their debt.

Okay. So here we have a case where the coupon payments don't cover the interest.

And so what that means is they're implicitly borrowing more right there.

Implicitly borrowing more to cover their interest. If it was the other way around, then their coupon payments more than covered their interest cost.

Then they're repaying their loan as it goes on. Okay.

So that's why I try to get you to track these paths, all these paths and other stuff going.

Okay. But if you really. So there's two there's two parts I've seen in with this.

You know, if you really get this in your bones, then you understand the,

the the mindset, the theory of what the accounting people think they're doing.

Okay. And then we have to go, these are these are very nice transactions right where present values are nicely well-defined.

And only one things going on. We don't have somebody building widgets in someone with this guy.

So then we're going to go do all that. But the intuition is this this is what accountants think that they're trying to do.

The aspirations are wow, I'd like to track value. I have to track cash too, because, you know, we got to count the cash.

Wait a minute. Why does that?

